Risk Factors Business, Competitive and Strategic Risks Our results of operations and financial condition depend heavily on commodity prices and the availability of raw materials and other inputs; our failure or inability to respond to high or fluctuating input prices could adversely affect our profitability. Our results of operations and financial condition depend heavily on the cost and supply of raw materials and other inputs including conventional raw milk, butterfat, cream and other dairy commodities, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. Cost increases in raw materials and other inputs could cause our profitability to decrease significantly compared to prior periods, as we may be unwilling or unable to increase our prices to offset the increased cost of these raw materials and other inputs. Class I milk prices are near all-time highs, due in part to significant demand for dairy-based protein throughout Asia, and there can be no assurance that such prices will moderate. Although we generally pass through the cost of dairy commodities to our customers, we believe demand destruction can occur at certain price levels, and we may be unwilling or unable to pass through the cost of dairy commodities, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Dairy commodity prices can be affected by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frost, earthquakes and pestilence, which can lower crop and dairy yields and reduce supplies of these ingredients or increase their prices. 12 Table of Contents Our profitability also depends on the cost and supply of non-dairy raw materials and other inputs, such as sweeteners, petroleum-based products, diesel fuel, and resin. Our dairy and non-dairy raw materials are generally sourced from third parties, and we are not assured of continued supply, pricing or sufficient access to raw materials from any of these suppliers. Other events that adversely affect our suppliers and that are out of our control could also impair our ability to obtain the raw materials and other inputs that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we desire. Such events include problems with our suppliers’ businesses, finances, labor relations, costs, production, insurance, reputation and international demand and supply characteristics. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other inputs for our products or offset any increased costs for such raw materials and inputs, our business could be negatively affected. We may not realize anticipated benefits from our accelerated cost reduction efforts. We have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. In order to mitigate continued volume softness in our business, we accelerated our cost reduction activities in 2013 and plan to continue those cost reduction activities in 2014. Among other things, we have closed, or announced the closing of, 10 – 15% of our plants since late 2012. Our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to efficiently execute our significant cost reduction initiatives and rationalization plans on time and within budget. In addition, certain of our cost reduction initiatives, such as closing plants, may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion or distribution costs. For example, in connection with our plant closures, our cost of distribution on a per gallon basis has increased as we have changed distribution routes and transported product into areas previously serviced by closed plants. If we fail to properly anticipate and mitigate the ancillary cost increases to our plant closures, we may not realize the benefits of our cost reduction efforts. We must be efficient in executing our plans to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. To capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to carefully evaluate future investments in our business, and concentrate on those areas with the most potential return on investment. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. As a result of the sale of our Morningstar Foods business and the tax-free separation of our WhiteWave Foods business, we no longer operate as part of an international diversified food and beverage company and therefore may be more vulnerable to adverse events and trends in the fluid dairy industry and in the United States generally. In January 2013, we completed the disposition of our Morningstar division, which at the time of the disposition was a leading manufacturer of dairy and non-dairy extended shelf-life and cultured products, including creams and creamers, ice cream mixes, whipping cream, aerosol whipped toppings, iced coffee, half and half, value-added milks, sour cream and cottage cheese. In May 2013, we effected the tax-free spin-off of The WhiteWave Foods Company, our former branded plant-based foods and beverages, coffee creamers and beverages, and premium dairy products business, which operated in the United States and Europe. In July 2013, we disposed of our remaining interest in WhiteWave. As part of a more diversified, international food and beverage company, we were partially insulated against adverse events and trends in particular product lines and regions. After the dispositions of Morningstar and WhiteWave, however, we may be more susceptible to adverse regulations, economic climate, consumer trends, market fluctuations and other adverse events that are specific to the dairy category and the United States. The loss of, or a material reduction in sales volumes purchased by, any of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sam’s Club, accounted for approximately 19% and 23% of our consolidated net sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively, and our top five customers, including 13 Table of Contents Wal-Mart, collectively accounted for approximately 30% of our consolidated net sales in 2013 and 2012. We do not typically enter into written agreements with our customers; however, during 2013 we entered into an agreement with Wal-Mart relating to a significant portion of our private label business with Wal-Mart, which Wal-Mart may terminate upon certain conditions. As a result of an RFP, Wal-Mart transferred a meaningful portion of its business to other suppliers primarily in the first half of 2013, which resulted in a decline in our fluid milk volumes of approximately 7% during 2013. In addition, we are indirectly exposed to the financial and business risks of our significant customers because as their business declines they may correspondingly decrease the volumes purchased from us. The loss of, or further declines in sales volumes purchased by, any of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits, particularly due to our significant fixed costs and assets, which are difficult to rapidly reduce in response to significant volume declines. Price concessions to large format retailers have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our operating margins and profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and increased our dependence on key large-format retailers and discounters. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and have re-dedicated key shelf-space currently occupied by our regionally branded products for their private label products, which have a lower margin. Additionally, higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases have had a significant impact on our business. In the past, retailers have at times required price concessions that have negatively impacted our margins, and continued pressures to make such price concessions could negatively impact our profitability in the future. If we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately in response to customer pricing demands, and if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer mix and a profitable product mix, our profitability could continue to be adversely affected. Volume softness in the dairy category has had a negative impact on our sales and profits. Industry-wide volume softness across dairy product categories continued in 2013. In particular, the fluid milk category has experienced declining volumes over the past several years. Decreasing dairy category volume has increased the impact of declining margins on our business. Periods of declining volumes limit the cost and price increases that we can seek to recapture. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future, which could further negatively affect our business. In addition, in recent years, we have experienced a decline in historical volumes from some of our largest customers, which has negatively impacted our sales and profitability and which will continue to have a negative impact in the future if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer and product mix. Our sales and profits have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by the outcome of competitive bidding. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. As a result, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, both formal and informal, which have materially reduced our sales volumes and profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. During 2013, as a result of an RFP, a significant customer transferred a material portion of its business to other suppliers, which resulted in a decline in our fluid milk volumes of approximately 7% during 2013. These lost volumes have had, and are expected to continue to have, a negative effect on our sales and profits in the near term. Furthermore,we are not able to predict the long-term effects of this volume loss on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In some cases, we have replaced lost volume with lower margin business, which also negatively impacts our profitability. Additionally, this competitive environment may result in us serving an increasing number of small format customers for which we may not have the proper information to understand the costs of production and distribution, which may impact the profitability of our business. If we are 14 Table of Contents unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a lower cost, which could negatively impact our sales and profits. The continuing industry shift from branded to private label products could impede our growth rate and profit margin. We are experiencing a continued shift from branded to private label products. Private label competitors are generally able to sell their products at lower prices because private label products typically have lower marketing costs than their branded competitors. In periods of economic weakness, consumers tend to purchase lower-priced products, including conventional milk, coffee creamers and other private label products, which could reduce sales of our branded products. In addition, in periods of severe economic disparity and income inequality, certain of our customers may purchase lower-priced products as well as make purchases less frequently. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and the profit margin for our branded products. If our products fail to compete successfully with other branded or private label offerings in the industry, demand for our products and our sales volumes could be negatively impacted. If we fail to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products could decline. Consumer tastes and preferences are difficult to predict and evolve over time. Demand for our products depends on our ability to identify and offer products that appeal to these shifting preferences. Factors that may affect consumer tastes and preferences include: • dietary trends and increased attention to nutritional values, such as the sugar, fat, protein or calorie content of different foods and beverages; • concerns regarding the health effects of specific ingredients and nutrients, such as dairy, sugar and other sweeteners, vitamins and minerals; • concerns regarding the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people; and • increasing awareness of the environmental and social effects of product production. In recent years, the U.S. dairy industry has experienced overall volume declines. If consumer demand for our products declines, our sales volumes and our business could be negatively affected. We may incur liabilities or harm to our reputation, or be forced to recall products as a result of real or perceived product quality or other product-related issues. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage, other adulteration, misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, including environmental, health and safety requirements, or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, our product advertising could make us the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including the consumer protection statutes of some states, or laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant product liability, consumer fraud or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. Even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other claim is found to be without merit or is otherwise 15 Table of Contents unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories that are promoted as having strong health and wellness credentials. In addition, consumer preferences related to genetically modified foods or the use of certain sweeteners could result in negative publicity and adversely affect our reputation. Any loss of consumer confidence in our product ingredients or in the safety and quality of our products would be difficult and costly to overcome. Disruption of our supply or distribution chains or transportation systems could adversely affect our business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, environmental incident, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. If we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results. Failure to maintain sufficient internal production capacity or to enter into co-packing agreements on terms that are beneficial for us may result in our inability to meet customer demand and/or increase our operating costs. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong production platform and we rely on internal production resources and third-party co-packers to fulfill our manufacturing needs. As part of our ongoing cost reduction efforts, we have closed or announced the closure of a number our plants since late 2012. It is possible that we may need to increase our reliance on third parties to provide manufacturing and supply services, commonly referred to as “co-packing” agreements, for a number of our products. In particular, there is increasing consumer preference for extended shelf life (“ESL”) products in certain categories and, as a result of the Morningstar divestiture, we are contractually limited in our ability to manufacture ESL products. A failure by our co-packers to comply with food safety, environmental, or other laws and regulations may disrupt our supply of products. If we need to enter into additional co-packing agreements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to find acceptable third-party providers or enter into agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to establish satisfactory co-packing arrangements could limit our ability to operate our business and could negatively affect our sales volumes and results of operations. If we cannot maintain sufficient production capacity, either internally or through third-party agreements, we may be unable to meet customer demand and/or our manufacturing costs may increase, which could negatively affect our business. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or experience a security breach. We maintain a large database of confidential information in our information technology systems, including confidential employee and customer information. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology environment, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, viruses, security breaches or cyber incidents such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises. A security breach of such information could result in damage to our reputation, and could negatively impact our relations with our customers or employees. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our Board of Directors could change our dividend policy at any time. In November 2013, our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy under which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock commencing in 2014. However, we have not yet declared any dividend payments in connection with this policy. We are not required to pay dividends and our stockholders do not have contractual or other legal rights to receive them. Any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future may be affected by business conditions, our views on potential future capital requirements, the terms of our debt instruments, legal risks, changes in federal income tax law and challenges to our business model. Furthermore, our Board of Directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, not to pay a dividend, to decrease the amount of dividends or to change or revoke the dividend policy entirely. If we do not pay dividends, for whatever reason, shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile, and in the future may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described in this section and the following: • changes in financial estimates by analysts or our inability to meet those financial estimates; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in our quarterly results of operations and those of our competitors; • general economic and stock market conditions; • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, geographies or customers; • terrorist acts; • perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives; • actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors; and • speculation by the investment community regarding our business. In addition, the stock markets, including the NYSE, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. This volatility may increase the risk that our stockholders will suffer a loss in their investments or be unable to sell their shares or otherwise liquidate their holdings of our common stock. Capital Markets and General Economic Risk We may be required to write off or impair capitalized costs or intangible assets in the future or we may incur restructuring costs or other charges, each of which could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations or net worth. In response to anticipated lower sales volumes, competition and other market factors affecting our business, we have implemented cost reduction and restructuring plans in an effort to reduce the size and cost of our 17 Table of Contents operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. As a result of such actions, we expect to incur restructuring expenses and other charges which may be material. Several factors could cause a restructuring to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. During the year ended December 31, 2013 we evaluated the impact on our projected future cash flows that we expected from the volume losses from Wal-Mart and certain other changes to our business. This analysis identified indicators of impairment at certain of our production facilities and therefore we were required to test the assets at those facilities for recoverability. The results of our analysis indicated impairments of our plant, property and equipment of $35.5 million, which we recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. Additionally, we recorded impairments related to certain intangible assets of approximately $7.9 million in 2013. Our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill totaled $1.2 billion and $245.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we had $86.8 million of goodwill representing approximately 3% of our total assets. We record goodwill initially at fair value and review its fair value for impairment at least annually, as of December 1, or on an interim basis if impairment indicators, such as disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating performance or sustained market capitalization declines, are present. A qualitative assessment of goodwill was performed during 2013. We assessed economic conditions and industry and market considerations, in addition to the overall financial performance of our operations. Based on the results of our assessment, we determined that it was not more likely than not that our operations had a carrying value in excess of its fair value. Accordingly, no further goodwill testing was completed, and we did not recognize any impairment charges related to goodwill during 2013. It is possible that we will have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results. See Note to 7 our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our goodwill and intangible assets. The recent economic decline may adversely impact our business and results of operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in international, national and local general economic conditions. The economic decline and income disparity experienced in recent years has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. High levels of unemployment, high consumer debt levels and other unfavorable economic factors could further adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which in turn adversely affects our results of operations. Consumers may not return to historical spending patterns. The costs of providing employee benefits have escalated, and liabilities under certain plans may be triggered due to our actions or the actions of others, which may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multiemployer plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post-retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans are less than fully funded. Facility closings may trigger cash payments or previously unrecognized obligations under our defined benefit retirement plans, and the costs of such liabilities may compromise our ability to accelerate our cost reduction initiatives on time and within budget. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to potential 18 Table of Contents changes in funding requirements, the costs of maintaining our pension plans are impacted by various factors including increases in healthcare costs and legislative changes such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. Future funding requirements and related charges associated with multiemployer plans in which we participate could have a negative impact on our business. In addition to our company-sponsored pension plans, we participate in certain multiemployer defined benefit pension plans that are administered by labor unions representing certain of our employees. We make periodic contributions to these multiemployer pension plans in accordance with the provisions of negotiated collective bargaining arrangements. Our required contributions to these plans could increase due to a number of factors, including the funded status of the plans and the level of our ongoing participation in these plans. In addition, certain actions or the financial condition of other companies which participate in multiemployer plans may create financial obligations for us, which circumstances are entirely out of our control. In the event that we decide to withdraw from participation in one of these multiemployer plans, we could be required to make additional lump-sum contributions to relevant plan. These withdrawal liabilities may be significant and could adversely affect our business. Some of the plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities, which could increase the amount of any potential withdrawal liability. Future funding requirements and related charges associated with multiemployer plans in which we participate could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our existing debt and other financial obligations may restrict our business operations and we may incur even more debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $50 million under our senior secured credit facility and approximately $213 million under our receivables-backed facility, and we had the ability to borrow up to a combined additional $800 million under our senior secured credit facility and receivables-backed facility. In addition, we had $642 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our restricted subsidiaries) to secure our senior secured credit facility. Our debt and related debt service obligations: • Require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; • May limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding capital expenditures; • Impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; • Expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations is at variable rates; and • Restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness in the future, these limitations would likely have a greater impact on our business. Under our senior secured credit facility and our receivables-backed facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and receivables-backed facility. As of December 31, 2013, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 3.50 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. As of December 31, 2013, our leverage ratio was 2.24 times. Failure to comply with the financial covenants, or any other non-financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables-backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. In those circumstances, we would be required to amend 19 Table of Contents our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to various factors such as prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the future is also dependent on our ability to renew our receivables-backed facility annually. See “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Current Debt Obligations” below for more information. Changes in our credit ratings may have a negative impact on our future financing costs or the availability of capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. Our credit ratings are currently considered to be below “investment grade.” Although the interest rate on our existing credit facilities is not affected by changes in our credit ratings, such ratings or any further rating downgrades may impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, may cause the value of our securities to decline and may have other negative implications with respect to our business. Ratings reflect only the views of the ratings agency issuing the rating, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency issuing the rating. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Legal and Regulatory Risks Pending antitrust lawsuits may have a material adverse impact on our business. We are the subject of two antitrust lawsuits, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. Increased scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in litigation against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend, divert management’s attention and may result in significant judgments. In some cases, these awards would be trebled by statute and successful plaintiffs might be entitled to an award of attorney’s fees. Depending on its size, such a judgment could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and impair our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to pay such judgment or to post a bond for an appeal, given our financial condition and our available cash resources. In addition, depending on its size, failure to pay such a judgment or failure to post an appeal bond could cause us to breach certain provisions of our credit facilities. In either of these circumstances, we may seek a waiver of or amendment to the terms of our credit facilities, but we may not be able to obtain such a waiver or amendment. Failure to obtain such a waiver or amendment would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could impair our ability to continue operations. Moreover, these actions could expose us to negative publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and/or customer preference for our products. In addition, merger and acquisition activities are subject to these antitrust and competition laws, which have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to pursue strategic transactions. For more detail regarding these matters, please see “Part I — Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and have a negative impact on our reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation 20 Table of Contents claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor disputes could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 38% of our employees participated in collective bargaining agreements. Our collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire at various times over the next 4 years. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, or if we are unable to negotiate labor contracts on reasonable terms, our ability to supply our products to customers could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. In addition, our ability to make short-term adjustments to control compensation and benefits costs or otherwise to adapt to changing business requirements may be limited by the terms of our collective bargaining agreements. Our business is subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which may increase our compliance costs or subject us to liabilities. Our business operations are subject to numerous requirements in the United States relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response and the Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as similar state and local statutes and regulations in the United States. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions and the discharge of wastewater and other pollutants, the use of refrigerants, the handling and disposal of hazardous materials, and the cleanup of contamination in the environment. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations may be significant, particularly relating to wastewater and ammonia treatment which are capital intensive. Additionally, we could incur significant costs, including fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury as a result of the failure to comply with, or liabilities under, environmental, health and safety requirements. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results. Violations of laws or regulations related to the food industry, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations related to the food industry, could adversely affect our business. The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling and distribution of our products, as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities are subject to extensive regulation. We are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the FDA, the FTC, and the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and Labor. 21 Table of Contents Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In particular, in recent years, the dairy industry has been the subject of increased government scrutiny. In 2010, the Obama administration initiated a review of existing federal dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. The U.S. farm bill, the primary tool regulating federal dairy policy, was reauthorized by the U.S. Congress in January 2014 and was signed into law by President Obama in February 2014. Although we do not expect to see any practical impact from the bill until later in 2014, the enactment of the new farm bill may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot control and that may have a negative effect on our business. In addition, our volumes may be impacted by the level of government spending that supports grocery purchases because such amounts may impact the level of consumer spending on fluid dairy products. For example, the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act contained a provision that temporarily expanded the amount of benefits offered under the federal government’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”) in an effort to help those affected by the recession. This provision expired effective November 1, 2013. As a meaningful portion of SNAP benefits are spent in the dairy category, we are cautious about the impact that the reduction in these benefits could have on consumer spending in the dairy category. If the impact of the SNAP expiration is material to our operations or if other government spending programs, such as the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), are suspended or expire, then it could have an adverse impact upon our volumes and our results of operations. In addition, the marketing and advertising of our products could make us the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal and state laws and regulations, and we may be subject to initiatives that limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase our compliance costs, increase other costs of doing business for us, our customers or our suppliers, or restrict our actions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In some cases, increased regulatory scrutiny could interrupt distribution of our products, as could be the case in the United States as the FDA enacts the recently-passed Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011, or force changes in our production processes and our products. Further, if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to the Sale of Morningstar Foods and the Tax-Free Separation of WhiteWave We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the Morningstar sale and the WhiteWave separation transactions. Having completed the separation of our Morningstar and WhiteWave businesses during 2013, we believe that we will be able to better focus our financial and operational resources on the fluid milk business, streamline our infrastructure to focus on our core strengths and maintain an appropriate capital structure. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a smaller, more focused company, or do not achieve them in the timeframe we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The WhiteWave separation transactions could result in significant tax liability to us. We received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, subject to certain conditions, the WhiteWave spin-off and our subsequent disposition of our remaining interests in WhiteWave, would be tax-free to us and our stockholders. In addition, we received an opinion from our outside tax advisors on certain items in 22 Table of Contents connection with the WhiteWave transactions not addressed in the private letter ruling. This tax opinion, however, is not binding on the IRS, and we may not be able to rely on the IRS private letter ruling if the factual representations or assumptions in the ruling request are determined to be untrue or incomplete in any material respect. If the IRS were to determine that the WhiteWave spin-off and subsequent disposition of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave do not qualify for tax-free treatment, then we and our stockholders would be subject to tax in connection with such transactions. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to us and our stockholders would be substantial. The tax rules applicable to a tax-free spin-off may restrict us from engaging in certain corporate transactions or from raising equity capital in certain instances. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the spin-off of WhiteWave would be taxable to us, but not our stockholders, if such spin-off is part of a “plan or series of related transactions” pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us or WhiteWave. These rules may limit our ability during certain specified periods following the WhiteWave spin-off to enter into certain transactions that may be advantageous to us and our stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, disposing of certain assets, engaging in mergers and acquisitions, and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. In addition, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with WhiteWave in connection with the WhiteWave IPO, we are prohibited from taking certain actions that may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions that involve the issuance or acquisition of our stock or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might increase the value of our business. This restriction may also limit our ability to raise significant amounts of cash through the issuance of stock, especially if our stock price were to suffer substantial declines, or through the sale of certain of our assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 