ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a wide range of substantial business and economic factors including, but not limited to, the factors discussed below, many of which are not within the Company’s control. See the information under the heading “Forward-Looking Information Safe Harbor” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATED CUSTOMER BASE Net sales to the Company’s three largest customers and their affiliates approximated 38% and 34% of total 2007 and 2006 sales, respectively. The accounts receivable balances from these three customers comprised approximately 21% and 23% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. An adverse change in, or termination of, the Company’s relationship with one or more of its major customers or one or more of its market segments could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. See the information under the heading “Customers” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPETITION The Company competes with domestic and foreign sources of specialty steel products. In addition, many of the finished products sold by the Company’s customers are in direct competition with finished products manufactured by foreign sources, which may affect the demand for those customers’ products. Any competitive factors that adversely affect the market for finished products manufactured by the Company or its customers could indirectly adversely affect the demand for the Company’s semi-finished products. Additionally, the Company’s products compete with products fashioned from alternative materials such as aluminum, composites and plastics, the production of which includes domestic and foreign enterprises. Competition in the Company’s field is intense and is expected to continue to be so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. See the information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AEROSPACE MARKET Approximately 45% of the Company’s sales represent products sold to customers in the aerospace market. The aerospace market is historically cyclical due to both external and internal market factors. These factors include general economic conditions, airline profitability, demand for air travel, age of fleets, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation can be influenced by any one or a combination of these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. A downturn in the aerospace industry would adversely affect the demand for products and/or the prices at which the Company is able to sell its products, and its results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers, some of which are foreign owned, for its raw material needs. Raw material prices are affected by cyclical, seasonal and other market factors. Alloys consumed by the Company are primarily available from foreign sources, some of which are located in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions. Those conditions might disrupt supplies or affect the prices of the raw materials used by the Company. The Company does not maintain long-term supply agreements with any of its independent suppliers. If its supply of raw materials were interrupted, the Company might not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, or obtain sufficient quantities of such materials at satisfactory prices, which, in either case, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, significant volatility in the price of the Company’s principal raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. See the information under the headings “Raw Materials” in Item 1, Business, and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RELIANCE ON ENERGY AGREEMENTS The manufacturing of specialty steels is an energy-intensive industry. While the Company believes that its energy agreements allow it to compete effectively within the specialty steel industry, the Company is subjected to curtailments as a result of decreased supplies and increased demand for electricity and natural gas. These interruptions not only can adversely affect the operating performance of the Company, but also can lead to increased costs for energy. See the information under the heading “Energy Agreements” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. LABOR MATTERS The Company has 439 employees out of a total of 533 who are covered under collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement for the 246 Bridgeville facility employees will expire in August 2008. There can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in concluding a collective bargaining agreement with the union to replace the one that expires. RELIANCE ON CRITICAL MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT The Company’s manufacturing processes are dependent upon certain critical pieces of specialty steel making equipment, such as the Company’s 50-ton electric-arc furnace and AOD (Argon Oxygen Decarburization) vessel, its ESR (Electro Slag Remelt) and VAR furnaces, and its universal rolling mill. In the event a critical piece of equipment should become inoperative as a result of unexpected equipment failure, there can be no assurance that the Company’s operations would not be substantially curtailed, which may have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. See Item 2, Properties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 