ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a wide range of substantial business and economic factors including, but not limited to, the factors discussed below, many of which are not within the Company’s control. Other factors of which the Company is unaware or which the Company does not consider to be material at this time also may impact the Company’s business and results of operations. See the information under the heading “Forward-Looking Information Safe Harbor” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 8 Table of Contents SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATED CUSTOMER BASE Net sales to the Company’s largest customer accounted for 10.8% of total 2009 sales and 10.7% of total 2008 sales. The accounts receivable balances from this customer comprised approximately 7% and 4% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For 2008, a second customer accounted for 15.3% of net sales and 9% of accounts receivable. An adverse change in, or termination of, the Company’s relationship with one or more of its major customers or one or more of its market segments could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. See the information under the heading “Customers” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPETITION The Company competes with domestic and foreign sources of specialty steel products. In addition, many of the finished products sold by the Company’s customers are in direct competition with finished products manufactured by foreign sources, which may affect the demand for those customers’ products. Any competitive factors that adversely affect the market for finished products manufactured by the Company or its customers could indirectly adversely affect the demand for the Company’s semi-finished products. Additionally, the Company’s products compete with products fashioned from alternative materials such as aluminum, composites and plastics, the production of which includes domestic and foreign enterprises. Competition in the Company’s field is intense and is expected to continue to be so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. See the information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AEROSPACE MARKET Approximately 39% of the Company’s sales and 30% of tons shipped represent products sold to customers in the aerospace market in 2009. The aerospace market is historically cyclical due to both external and internal market factors. These factors include general economic conditions, diminished credit availability, airline profitability, demand for air travel, age of fleets, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation can be influenced by any one or a combination of these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. A downturn in the aerospace industry would adversely affect the demand for products and/or the prices at which the Company is able to sell its products, and its results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS The Company purchases scrap metal and alloy additives, principally nickel, chrome and molybdenum, for its melting operation. A substantial portion of the alloy additives is available only from foreign sources, some of which are located in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions. Those conditions might disrupt supplies or affect the prices of the raw materials used by the Company. The Company maintains sales price surcharges to help offset the impact of raw material price fluctuations. The Company does not maintain long-term supply agreements with any of its raw material suppliers. If its supply of raw materials were interrupted, the Company might not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, or obtain sufficient quantities of such materials at satisfactory prices, which, in either case, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, significant volatility in the price of the Company’s principal raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and there can be no assurance that the raw material surcharge mechanism employed by the Company will completely offset immediate changes in the Company’s raw material costs. See the information under the headings “Raw Materials” in Item 1, Business, and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Future Outlook” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents CURRENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND MARKET FACTORS Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our customers, which in turn is affected by global economic and market factors impacting the industries and markets that they serve. As has been widely reported, the financial markets and overall economies in the United States and abroad are currently undergoing a period of significant uncertainty and volatility. Economic slowdowns in certain markets or an extension of the current credit crisis to additional industries, particularly in the United States, may adversely impact overall demand for our products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Further, there can be no assurance that any governmental responses to recent disruptions in the financial markets ultimately will stabilize the markets or increase our customers’ liquidity or the availability of credit to our customers. The global financial crisis also may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. As a result, there can be no assurance that global economic and market conditions will not adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow or financial position in the future. RELIANCE ON ENERGY AGREEMENTS The manufacturing of specialty steels is an energy-intensive industry. While the Company believes that its energy agreements allow it to compete effectively within the specialty steel industry, the Company is subjected to curtailments as a result of decreased supplies and increased demand for electricity and natural gas. These interruptions not only can adversely affect the operating performance of the Company, but also can lead to increased costs for energy. See the information under the heading “Energy Agreements” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. LABOR MATTERS The Company has 332 employees out of a total of 414 who are covered under collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement for the Titusville hourly employees will expire in September 2010. There can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in timely concluding collective bargaining agreements with the USW to replace the ones that expire. RELIANCE ON CRITICAL MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT The Company’s manufacturing processes are dependent upon certain critical pieces of specialty steel making equipment, such as the Company’s 50-ton electric-arc furnace and AOD (Argon Oxygen Decarburization) vessel, its ESR (Electro Slag Remelt) and VAR furnaces, and its universal rolling mill. In the event a critical piece of equipment should become inoperative as a result of unexpected equipment failure, there can be no assurance that the Company’s operations would not be substantially curtailed, which may have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. See Item 2, Properties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 