D. Risk factors In addition to the information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report. Provida’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The economic situation in Chile significantly affects Provida’s results The main source of Provida’s revenues from operations comes from the monthly fees charged to its contributors for mandatory contributions made in their individual capitalization accounts, which are compulsory for every salaried worker as long as there is a labor contract in force. These represented 77.2% of the total revenues from operations for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result, the economic situation in Chile related to economic activity indicators and employment conditions significantly affects the Company’s results. Macroeconomic conditions affect the financial capacity of employers and/or entrepreneurs, which might produce a drop in the number of employee contributors or a lack of capacity for creating new jobs, and decrease the salary of workers. Therefore, both variables—number of employee contributors and average salary—determine the salary base of the contributors and affect the Company’s results. An increase in the unemployment rate negatively affects Provida’s results and, depending on its magnitude, the impact could be significant. Additionally, Provida’s financial condition and operations results could also be adversely affected by changes in the economic policies implemented by the Chilean Government, political or economic developments in Chile or those affecting Chile. Changes in the development of the Chilean economy could adversely affect Provida’s ability to develop its business strategy. It is important to note that natural disasters occurring in Chile, (i.e. an earthquake, such as the one that occurred on February 27, 2010 or floods, such as those that struck the northern regions of the country in March, 2015) could be another factor affecting the country's economy and thus Provida's results should they affect the unemployment level in the country, affect contributions received and therefore commissions, provoke tax rate increases or cause significant damage to Provida’s assets. 7 Table of Contents Pension funds under administration invest globally, and as a result are affected by the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic development. In recent years, pension fund returns have been subject to volatility in international and local financial markets, where foreign investments represented 45.37% of Provida’s total assets under management for the year ended December 31, 2014. The Pension Reform Law increased the percentage of investments which AFPs are allowed to make abroad, from a range between 30% to 45% to a range between 30% to 60% during the first twelve months following the enactment of the Pension Reform Law (from October 1, 2008 to September 30, 2009); and between 30% to 80% after the thirteenth month (October 1, 2009). In September 2008, the Central Bank gradually increased the maximum investments limits abroad: 45% as of October 1, 2008, 50% as of December 1, 2008, 55% as of April 1, 2009 and 60% as of August 3, 2009. In November 2010, the Central Bank increased again the maximum global investment limit abroad from 60% to 80%, gradually increasing as follows: 65% as of December 1, 2010, 70% as of March 1, 2011, 75% as of June 1, 2011 and 80% as of September 1, 2011. Such increases permit pension funds to have new investment opportunities, which could improve the diversity of their investment portfolios, but at the same time increase the exposure to international market risks. The worldwide economy could affect Provida’s returns on mandatory investments and therefore its net profit. Provida has limitations on significantly increasing its market position As of December 31, 2014, according to official statistics released by the Superintendency of Pensions, Provida has maintained a leading position in the private pension system since its incorporation, which has led to a market share of 34% in terms of number of participants and 28% in terms of assets under management. Given its position in this market and its relative size, it is highly probable that competitors will take steps toward attracting participants from Provida and persuading them to transfer their funds and make contributions to other AFPs, limiting Provida from significantly increasing its market share. A decrease in Provida’s participant portfolio could have a negative impact on its revenues from operations. Provida is limited in its ability to improve the performance of its assets under management Provida’s assets under management totaling MCh$27,978,986 (US$53.3 billion) as of December 31, 2014 are very large with respect to the size of the local capital market measured by its total capitalization. This reduces Provida’s flexibility to significantly modify its portfolio structures, and consequently to improve the return offered to its participants. Additionally, in situations of instability or uncertainty in the markets, Provida’s reactive capacity is likely to be limited. In this context, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to maintain a sufficient rate of return on its pension funds to decrease the number of participant transfers. Any decrease in Provida’s participant portfolio could have a negative impact on its revenues from operations. Provida operates in a regulated market in which its flexibility to manage its business is limited Provida’s operations are regulated by the Pension Law and, to the extent applicable, Chilean corporation law. The Pension Law defines the scope of the business of pension fund administrators, which only permits Provida to engage in the administration of its pension funds and the rendering of related benefits. Provida is also authorized to establish local related corporations that may complement its line of business or invest in pension fund administrators or entities located in other countries whose business is related to pension matters. Regarding pension fund investments, Provida must invest such assets in accordance with the types of instruments and within the ranges of assets and maximum percentages allocated per investment and fund type authorized by the Pension Law. In addition, the Pension Law requires each AFP to maintain a minimum reserve fund known as “mandatory investment” equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management in order to provide a minimum return on investments for each of its pension funds. This minimum return is based on a weighted average of the return by all pension funds in the AFP system in a 36-month period. This requirement has been designated in accordance with different portfolio compositions, giving those with a higher component of variable income and therefore higher 8 Table of Contents volatility (funds Type A and B), a larger margin to achieve the requirement. If a fund’s return for a certain month is lower than the minimum return, the AFP must cover the difference within a 5-day period. To do so, the AFP is permitted to apply funds from the mandatory investments, and in that event, such amount must be refunded within 15 days. In accordance with the Pension Law, if an AFP fails to comply with either the minimum return requirement or the minimum reserve fund requirement, it may eventually be required to be dissolved. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services for participants’ contributions in the pension funds”. The Pension Reform Law increased the investment limits for the pension funds. If pension fund returns managed by Provida do not achieve the legal minimum return established by law, due to any instability or uncertainty in capital markets as described above, the Company could lose part of its mandatory investments aimed at covering this difference. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services for participants’ contributions in the pension funds”. This portion must be replenished in a maximum term of 15 days to fulfill the legal requirement to maintain a reserve equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management and to continue with its business with the consequent reduction in the Company’s equity. However, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to fulfill minimum return requirements or the minimum reserve. Provida’s business and results of operations may be affected by changes in laws, regulations or Chilean Government proposals On January 16, 2008, the Pension Reform Law in relation to the private pension system was approved and was published as the Republic Law (N° 20,255) in the Official Gazette on March 17, 2008. The first changes started to be implemented on July 1, 2008. Changes introduced by the reform can be summarized in four areas: coverage improvement, new industrial organization, investments and new institutional framework. As a result of the implementation of the Pension Reform Law, there is a bidding process of all new participants entering the system every two years beginning in July 2010 and for a 24 month period, to the AFP offering the lowest variable fee is awarded the new participant`s accounts. This fee must be lower than the lowest fee operating in the industry and must apply to the AFP’s entire portfolio and not only to the portion awarded. Provida’s management believes that the approved reform consolidates the current private pension system and provides an adequate legal framework for AFPs to continue developing their activities. In reference to the coverage improvement, Provida believes that this implies a new business opportunity for AFPs. Additionally, Provida believes that the flexibility of investment alternatives makes increased competition possible. However, future changes in laws or regulations in Chile may have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. In addition, Provida is subject to changes in tax laws. Reflecting the above, in September 2012 Chile implemented a new tax law maintaining the applicable tax rate at 20% instead of lowering the rate to 18.5% for 2012 and 17% from 2013 thereon, as established in a previous change in tax law made in 2010. Further increases in applicable taxes, or other negative tax treatment, could have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. During 2014, the tax reform increased the rate up to 21%. Coverage of life and insurance risk was modified by Pension Reform The Pension Reform eliminated the responsibility of the Pension Fund Industry regarding the coverage of casualties since July 1, 2009 (as several Insurance Companies were awarded with those benefits). Since then, Provida’s life and insurance risk is limited to life benefits and the casualties spending payment due to temporary disability, both under coverage as of June 30, 2009. The last insurance contract hired by Provida was terminated and settled on March 31, 2014. After the process of review and analysis of financial and actuarial aspects of the contract, as part of the settlement. Provida received MCh$3,107 from the insurance company related to the claims coverage as of June 30, 2009. Therefore, the amount received was recorded as part of the provision related to future payments of the claims. As of December 2014, the Company has recorded its obligations for this concept in accordance with the casualty model that considers the future evolution of relevant variables under prudent scenarios. As a result of this model, Provida has recorded in its provisions all the disabilities claims timely requested (until June, 2009) and the potential life beneficiaries of deceased participants through June 2009. 9 Table of Contents As mentioned above in “Item 3. Key Information - Recent regulatory changes” the Company no longer carries the risk of the participants for temporary disability and life benefits. Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurers such that the risk of failure of an insurer to pay any required shortfall amount is borne by Provida Under the Pension Reform Law, the Pension Fund Administrators together must purchase insurance for their affiliates, called life and disability insurance (SIS). The right to provide such insurance is awarded through a bidding process, which is carried out by all AFPs. In the case of bankruptcy of all involved insurance companies, the State guarantees the necessary additional contributions to complete the required amount to finance the life and disability pension through the State guarantee. The coverage of such guarantee is 100% of the prevailing minimum pension and 75% of the excess of the pension with a maximum of UF 45 per month (MCh$1 approximately) for each beneficiary or pensioner. 