D. Risk factors In addition to the information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report. Provida’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The economic situation in Chile significantly affects Provida’s results The main source of Provida’s operating revenues stems from the monthly fees charged to its contributors for mandatory contributions made in their individual capitalization accounts, which are compulsory for every salaried worker as long as there is a labor contract in force. These represented 80.8% of the total operating revenues for the year ended on December 31, 2006. As a consequence, the economic situation in Chile related to growth activity indicators and employment conditions significantly affects the Company’s results. In fact, macroeconomic conditions have repercussions on the financial capacity of employers and/or entrepreneurs, which might produce a drop in the number of employee-contributors or a lack of capacity for creating new jobs as well as increasing the income of workers. Therefore, both variables –number of employee-contributors and average salaries, determine the salary base of the contributors and affect the Company’s results. An increase in the unemployment rate negatively affects Provida’s results and, depending on its magnitude, the impact could be significant. Additionally, Provida’s financial condition and operations results could also be adversely affected by changes in economic policies by the Chilean Government, political or economic developments in Chile or those affecting Chile. Changes in development of the Chilean economy could adversely affect Provida’s ability to develop its business strategy. Pension funds are global investors, which are affected by the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic development Pension Funds such as those managed by Provida are global investors and are therefore, affected by both the economies of neighboring countries as well as worldwide economic factors. In recent years, pension fund returns have been subject to volatility in international and local financial markets. Foreign investments represented 31.5% of the total of Provida’s assets under management for the year ended on December 31, 2006. The worldwide economy could affect Provida’s returns obtained on mandatory investment and therefore its net income. Provida’s returns in foreign companies’ investments could be affected by changes in the regulatory environment, the exchange rates and the economic situation of the countries where they are located Provida through its subsidiary Provida Internacional S.A. (“Provida Internacional”) maintains equity interests in private pension fund administrators operating in Peru, Ecuador, Mexico and the Dominican Republic, whose results represented 13.1% of Provida’s net income for the year ended on December 31, 2006. These foreign administrators are highly regulated, which generates certain stability. However, Provida can not ensure that legal modifications in those countries where these subsidiaries are located could not affect its results. Further, given the high correlation between the results of the pension business and the economic conditions in the countries where the Company operates, a change in the economic situation of those countries could affect Provida’s results. Likewise, in accordance with the accounting policies, particularly Technical Bulletin N° 64 issued by the Chilean Institute of Accountants, devaluation of domestic currencies against the U.S. dollar and the evolution of the 6 Table of Contents latter with respect to the Chilean currency could adversely affect the income from foreign related companies recognized by Provida and therefore their respective returns. Provida has limitations on significantly increasing its market position According to public statistics released by the Superintendency of AFPs, Provida has maintained a leading position in the private pension system since its inception, which has currently led to market share around 40% in terms of clients and over 30% in terms of assets under management and the associated salary base. Given its market position and its relative size, it is highly probable that competitors will take steps towards attracting participants from Provida persuading them to transfer their funds and make contributions to other Pension Fund Administrators (“AFPs”), limiting Provida from significantly increasing its market share. A decrease in Provida’s client portfolio could have a negative impact on its operating revenues. Provida is limited in its ability to improve the performance of its assets under management Associated with the leading position described above, Provida’s assets under management are very large with respect to the local capital market, totaling MCh$14,629,244 (US$27.5 billion) as of December 2006. The latter reduces Provida’s flexibility to significantly modify its portfolio structures, and consequently to improve the return offered to its affiliates. Additionally, in situations of instability or uncertainty in the markets, Provida’s reactive capacity is likely to be limited. In this context, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to maintain a sufficient rate of return on its pension funds to attract new affiliations or decrease the number of affiliate transfers. Any decrease in Provida’s client portfolio could have a negative impact on its operating revenues. Additionally, if pension fund returns managed by Provida do not achieve the legal minimum return established by law, due to any instability or uncertainty as was described above, the Company could loose part of its mandatory reserve aimed at covering this difference. See “Item 4. Information on Provida – B. Business overview – Principal activities - Investment services”. This portion must be replenished in a maximum term of 15 days to fulfill the legal requirement to maintain a reserve equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management and to continue with its business with the consequent reduction in the Company’s equity. Provida operates in a regulated market in which its flexibility to manage its business is limited Provida’s operations are regulated by the Pension Law and, to the extent applicable, the Chilean corporation law. The Pension Law defines the line of business of pension fund administrators, so Provida is only permitted to engage in the administration of its pension funds and the rendering of related benefits. Furthermore, it is authorized to establish local related corporations that may complement its line of business or invest in pension fund administrators or entities located in other countries whose lines of business are related to pension matters. Regarding pension fund investments, Provida must invest such assets in accordance with the types of instruments and within the ranges of assets and maximum percentages allocated per investment and fund types authorized by the Pension Law. In addition, the Pension Law requires each AFP to maintain a minimum reserve fund known as mandatory investment equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management in order to provide a minimum real return over investment for each of its pension funds. This minimum return is based on a weighted average of the real return by all pension funds in the AFP system in a 36-month period. This requirement has been designated in accordance with different portfolio composition, giving those with a higher component of variable income and therefore higher volatility (funds Type A and B), a larger margin to achieve the requirement. If a fund’s real return for a certain month were lower than the minimum return, the AFP must cover the difference within a 5-day period. To do so, the AFP is permitted to apply funds from the mandatory investment, and in that event, such amount must be refunded within 15 days. In accordance with the Pension Law, if an AFP fails to observe either the minimum reserve fund requirement or the minimum return requirement, it may eventually be required to be dissolved (See “Item 4. Information on Provida – B. Business overview – Principal activities - Investment services”). 7 Table of Contents Provida’s business and results of operations may be affected by changes in laws, regulation or Chilean government’s proposals The Chilean Government is working on a reform to the private pension system, which final stage was the elaboration of a bill submitted to the Congress in December 2006. The main aspects included in the reform can be summarized in three principal principles: solidarity, coverage and density, and contributive. See “Item 4. Information on Provida – B. Business overview – New legal developments”. In the Company’s management view, the Pension Reform intends to improve a system validated through the years. In first terms and concerning the solidarity principle, its target is to grant higher Government’s coverage to the poorest sector (subsidiary role by the Government). In terms of coverage and density principle, the integration of segments and gender’s equality imply a new business opportunity to the AFPs. Finally, with reference to the contributing principle this could imply more attractive returns for affiliates’ savings and therefore, higher penetration in the system. Additionally in terms of higher competitiveness, management considers that given that BBVA’s support and AFP Provida’s leadership in the market, as well as, its competitive advantage in terms of efficiency, all the aforementioned scenarios will be successfully faced. However, future changes in laws or regulations in Chile may have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. Life and disability insurance is the main component of operating expenses so an increase in the casualty rate of the client’s portfolio, or future changes in the market conditions or in the assumptions of our casualty model, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations Provida by law is obligated to provide life and disability benefits to its affiliates and is required to obtain insurance to support this obligation. The insurance policy covers Provida’s life and disability payment obligations above a certain casualty rate level that is negotiated with the insurance company. Provida pays all casualties up to the maximum rate specified in the contract (1.10% under a contract with BBVA Seguros de Vida S.A. in effect from August 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 and 1.27% under a contract with BBVA Seguros de Vida S.A. in effect from January 1, 2005 for an undefined term). In addition, if the insurance company were unable to meet its obligations under the insurance contract, Provida would be required to make the payments that would otherwise have been covered by the insurance company. Therefore, fluctuations in Provida’s estimates of what the actual casualty rate will be for any given period—which determine the expenses and provisions Provida will be required to record—significantly affect its results of operations. If the Company used different assumptions to calculate the casualty rate, its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Item 4—Information on Provida—Business overview—Primary expenses” and “Item 5—Operating and financial review and prospects—B. Critical accounting policies—Accounting of life and disability insurance costs”. Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurers such that the risk of failure of an insurer to pay any required shortfall amount is borne by Provida Under Provida’s 2005 and 2006 insurance policies, the insurer was required to cover all life and disability benefits in excess of 1.27% respectively, of the aggregate taxable income of Provida’s affiliates. However, if the insurer were not able to make any required payments to affiliates, Provida would be responsible for such payments. Accordingly, Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurer, to the extent of claims not paid prior to any bankruptcy, dissolution, or winding up (or similar events) of the insurance company that would render it unable to satisfy its obligations under the insurance contract. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause Provida to bear material additional costs, which could significantly affect Provida’s results. 8 Table of Contents Item 