D. Risk factors In addition to the information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report. Provida’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. As is well known the country is committed to develop a convergence plan to fully adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). On December 12, 2008, the Superintendency of Pensions, taking into consideration the period of time that will be needed to adapt the information systems to prepare the information required, informed through the Ordinary Letter N°20,987 about the exemption applicable to all Pension Funds Administrators of presenting financial statements in accordance with IFRS during the year 2009. Thus, the Pensions Fund Administrators shall continue presenting comparative financial statements for the year ended 2009 in accordance with local generally accepted accounting principles, comparative to year 2008, and for informational purposes they must provide beginning on June 2009 a quarterly noncomparative report under IFRSs. Beginning on 2010 comparative to year 2009, financial statements will be presented in accordance with IFRS in accordance with General Note N°1,634 of the Superintendency of Pensions. As a result of the foregoing, the Company is implementing a project for transition to IFRSs which includes an analysis of the accounting method differences, the selection of the accounting methods to be applied when alternative treatments are permitted and an assessment of the changes in reporting procedures and systems. As of the date of preparation of these consolidated financial statements, the Company was in the process of preparing the information to enable it to estimate with reasonable objectivity the extent to which the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of income for 2009 will differ from those to be prepared in the future in accordance with the accounting methods contained in the IFRSs in force as of December 31, 2010. The economic situation in Chile significantly affects Provida’s results The main source of Provida’s operating revenues comes from the monthly fees charged to its contributors for mandatory contributions made in their individual capitalization accounts, which are compulsory for every salaried worker as long as there is a labor contract in force. These represented 77.6% of the total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. As a result, the economic situation in Chile related to growth activity indicators and employment conditions significantly affects the Company’s results. Macroeconomic conditions have repercussions on the financial capacity of employers and/or entrepreneurs, which might produce a drop in the number of employee-contributors or a lack of capacity for creating new jobs as well as increasing the income of workers. Therefore, both variables –number of employee-contributors and average salaries, determine the salary base of the contributors and affect the Company’s results. An increase in the unemployment rate negatively affects Provida’s results and, depending on its magnitude, the impact could be significant. Additionally, Provida’s financial condition and operations results could also be adversely affected by changes in the economic policies implemented by the Chilean Government, political or economic developments in Chile or those affecting Chile. Changes in development of the Chilean economy could adversely affect Provida’s ability to develop its business strategy. Pension funds are global investors, which are affected by the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic development Pension funds, such as those managed by Provida, are global investors and are therefore affected by both the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic factors. In recent years, pension fund returns have been subject to volatility in international and local financial markets, where foreign investments represented 43.7% of Provida’s total assets under management for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Pension Reform Law increased the permitted abroad investment range available to AFPs, from a range between 30% to 45% to a range between 30% to 60% during the first twelve months following the enactment of the Pension Reform Law (October 1, 2008 to September 30, 2009) and between 30% to 80% commencing on the thirteenth month (October 1, 2009). During the first twelve months, the Central Bank also established the gradual increase in the maximum limits on the AFPs’ investment: 45% starting on October 1, 2008, 50% beginning on December 1, 2008, 55% beginning on April 1, 2009 and 60% beginning on August 3, 2009. Such reform permits pension funds to have new investment opportunities, which could improve the diversity of their investment portfolios, but at the same time increases the potential exposure of the total assets managed by such AFPs to the international markets. The worldwide economy could affect Provida’s returns obtained on mandatory investments and therefore its net income. 9 Table of Contents Provida’s returns on its investments in foreign companies could be affected by changes in the regulatory environment, the exchange rates and the economic situation of the countries where such companies are located Provida through its subsidiary Provida Internacional S.A. (“Provida Internacional”) maintains equity interests in private pension fund administrators operating in Peru, Ecuador and Mexico, whose results represented in the aggregate MCh$8,914 (MUS$17.6) of Provida’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2009. These foreign administrators are highly regulated, which generates certain stability. However, Provida cannot ensure that changes in the laws of those countries where these subsidiaries are located could not affect its results. Further, given the link between the results of the pension business and the economic conditions in the countries where the Company operates, a change in the economic situation of those countries could affect Provida’s results. In accordance with the accounting policies, particularly Technical Bulletin N° 64, issued by the Chilean Institute of Accountants, the devaluation of domestic currencies against the US dollar and the appreciation of the latter with respect to the Chilean currency could adversely affect the income from foreign related companies recognized by Provida and therefore their respective returns. Provida has limitations on significantly increasing its market position According to official statistics released by the Superintendency of Pensions, Provida has maintained a leading position in the private pension system since its incorporation, which has led to a market share approximately 40% in terms of number of clients and over 30% in terms of assets under management and the associated salary base. Given its position in this market and its relative size, it is highly probable that competitors will take steps towards attracting participants from Provida and persuading them to transfer their funds and make contributions to other AFPs, limiting Provida from significantly increasing its market share. A decrease in Provida’s client portfolio could have a negative impact on its operating revenues. Provida is limited in its ability to improve the performance of its assets under management Provida’s assets under management totaling MCh$18,135,442 (US$35.8 billion) as of December 31, 2009 are very large with respect to the size of the local capital market measured by its total capitalization. The latter reduces Provida’s flexibility to significantly modify its portfolio structures, and consequently to improve the return offered to its affiliates. Additionally, in situations of instability or uncertainty in the markets, Provida’s reactive capacity is likely to be limited. In this context, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to maintain a sufficient rate of return on its pension funds to attract new affiliations or decrease the number of affiliate transfers. Any decrease in Provida’s client portfolio could have a negative impact on its operating revenues. Additionally, if pension fund returns managed by Provida do not achieve the legal minimum return established by law, due to any instability or uncertainty in capital markets as described above, the Company could lose part of its mandatory investments aimed at covering this difference. (See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services of affiliates’ contributions in the pension funds”). This portion must be replenished in a maximum term of 15 days to fulfill the legal requirement to maintain a reserve equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management and to continue with its business with the consequent reduction in the Company’s equity. Provida operates in a regulated market in which its flexibility to manage its business is limited Provida’s operations are regulated by the Pension Law and, to the extent applicable, Chilean corporation law. The Pension Law defines the scope of the business of pension fund administrators, which only permits Provida to engage in the administration of its pension funds and the rendering of related benefits. Provida is also authorized to establish local related corporations that may complement its line of business or invest in pension fund administrators or entities located in other countries whose business is related to pension matters. Regarding pension fund investments, Provida must invest such assets in accordance with the types of instruments and within the ranges of assets and maximum percentages allocated per investment and fund type authorized by the Pension Law. 10 Table of Contents In addition, the Pension Law requires each AFP to maintain a minimum reserve fund known as mandatory investment equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management in order to provide a minimum real return on investment for each of its pension funds. This minimum return is based on a weighted average of the real return by all pension funds in the AFP system in a 36-month period. This requirement has been designated in accordance with different portfolio compositions, giving those with a higher component of variable income and therefore higher volatility (funds Type A and B), a larger margin to achieve the requirement. If a fund’s real return for a certain month were lower than the minimum return, the AFP must cover the difference within a 5-day period. To do so, the AFP is permitted to apply funds from the mandatory investments, and in that event, such amount must be refunded within 15 days. In accordance with the Pension Law, if an AFP fails to observe either the minimum return requirement or the minimum reserve fund requirement, it may eventually be required to be dissolved. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services of affiliates’ contributions in the pension funds”. The Pension Reform Law increased the investment limits for the pension funds. However, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to fulfill minimum return requirements or the minimum reserve. Provida’s business and results of operations may be affected by changes in laws, regulations or Chilean Government proposals On January 16, 2008, the Pension Reform Law to the private pension system was approved and was published as the Republic Law (N° 20,255) in the Official Gazette on March 17, 2008. The first changes started to be implemented on July 1, 2008. Changes introduced by the reform can be summarized into four areas: coverage improvement, new industrial organization, investments and new institutional framework. Due to the implementation of the Pension Reform Law, a new factor might influence the Company’s ability to capture new affiliations that enter to the private pension system. The new affiliations in the pension system will be awarded every two years, for a 24-month period at a time, to the AFP offering for bidding a fee that: (i) must be lower than fees currently prevailing in the industry at the awarded date, and (ii) must apply to the AFP’s entire portfolio and not just certain client accounts. Provida’s management believes that the approved reform consolidates the current private pension system after 26 years of existence and provides an adequate legal framework for AFPs to continue developing their activities. In reference to the coverage improvement, Provida believes that this implies a new business opportunity for AFPs. Regarding the new industrial organization aimed at increasing competition and reducing entrance barriers, Provida has the support of the BBVA Group, which has a leading position in the Latin-American pensions market, as well as a competitive advantage in successfully facing the new conditions in the industry. Additionally, Provida estimates that the flexibility of investment alternatives makes it possible for increased competition. However, future changes in laws or regulations in Chile may have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. Life and disability insurance is the main component of operating expenses, therefore an increase in the casualty rate of the client’s portfolio, or future changes in the market conditions or in the assumptions of our casualty model, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations Before the changes implemented by the Pension Reform Law that carried out the life and disability insurance bidding process by AFPs as a whole that took effect in July 2009 (See “Item 3. Key Information – Recent regulatory changes”). By law, Provida is required to provide life and disability benefits to its affiliates and is required to obtain insurance to comply with this obligation. Provida individually awarded by a bidding process to an insurance company a policy to cover Provida’s life and disability payment obligations under certain casualty rate conditions stipulated in the contract. Provida paid all casualties up to the maximum rate specified in the contract (1.10% under a contract with BBVA Seguros de Vida S.A. in effect from August 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 and 1.27% under a contract with BBVA Seguros de Vida S.A. in effect from January 1, 2005 until June 2009). The insurance policy conditions were modified by mutual agreement of the parties with effect from January 2008 given the update of mortality tables used to calculate benefits, increasing the cost of the insurance. In figures, the maximum casualty rate increased to 1.70%, accompanied by a rise of the fee charged by the AFP from 2.39% to 2.59% in order to 11 Table of Contents finance such higher cost. Additionally, in October 2008 Provida´s fee was increased again to 2.64% in view of the new benefits granted by the Pension Reform Law to female affiliates and their spouses. In addition, if the insurance company were unable to meet its obligations under the insurance contract, Provida would be required to make the payments that would otherwise have been covered by the insurance company. Therefore, fluctuations in Provida’s estimates of what the actual casualty rate will be for any given period—which determine the expenses and accruals Provida will be required to record—significantly affect its results of operations. If the Company used different assumptions to calculate the casualty rate, its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Primary expenses” and “Item 5—Operating and financial review and prospects—Critical accounting policies—Accounting of life and disability insurance costs”. The Pension Reform Law eliminates the individual responsibility of the AFPs to provide life and disability insurance benefits. On July 1, 2009, a group of insurance companies was awarded the life and disability administration for a 12-month term. Because Provida’s insurance contract for coverage prior to July 2009 is in a runoff stage, Provida only maintains those casualties pending payment due to temporary disability determination. Additionally, insurance regulations governing life and disability insurance policies instructed that casualties reserves should be determined on a monthly basis at the market interest rate instead of the historical rate (defined as the minimum interest rate of the previous semester) giving the alternative to insurers to voluntarily apply such methodology to their existing contracts. AFP Provida requested that BBVA Seguros de Vida, its provider of life and disability insurance prior to the implementation of the Pension Reform Law, adopt the new regulation so that the Company’s liability would more accurately reflect the amount that will effectively be paid (i.e. fair value). Moreover, by mutual consent of the parties (previous compensation to the insurer for change in conditions) the financial performance of cash flows surplus was modified with a benchmark determined by assets of similar duration than the liability of the insurance. In view of adjustments in the assets and liabilities treatment associated with the life and disability insurance, AFP Provida has mitigated the risk associated with the interest rate fluctuation. Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurers such that the risk of failure of an insurer to pay any required shortfall amount is borne by Provida Under Provida’s insurance policies for 2008 and 2009, the insurer was required to cover all life and disability benefits in excess of a maximum casualty rate level of 1.27% of the aggregate taxable income of Provida’s affiliates. However, if the insurer were not able to make any required payments to affiliates, Provida would be responsible for such payments. Accordingly, Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurer to the extent of claims not paid prior to any bankruptcy, dissolution, or winding up (or similar events) of the insurance company that would render it unable to satisfy its obligations under the insurance contract. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause Provida to bear material additional costs, which could significantly affect its results. Under the Pension Reform Law, the Pension Fund Administrators altogether must purchase an insurance for their affiliates, called life and disability insurance (SIS). Such insurance premium is awarded through a bidding process, which is carried out by all AFPs. In the case of bankruptcy of all involved insurance companies, the State guarantees the necessary additional contributions to complete the required amount to finance the life and disability pension through the State guarantee. The coverage of such guarantee is from 100% of the prevailing minimum pension and 75% over the excess of the pension with a maximum of 45 UF for each beneficiary or pensioner. 12 Table of Contents 