ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a wide range of substantial business and economic factors including, but not limited to, the factors discussed below, many of which are not within the Company’s control. Other factors of which the Company is unaware or which the Company does not consider to be material at this time also may impact the Company’s business and results of operations. See the information under the heading “Forward-Looking Information Safe Harbor” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents A substantial amount of the Company’s sales are derived from a limited number of customers. Net sales to the Company’s two largest customers in 2012 accounted for 11% and 10% of 2012 sales. The accounts receivable balance from these two customers comprised approximately 6% and 6% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2012. An adverse change in, or termination of, the Company’s relationship with one or more of its major customers or one or more of its market segments could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. See the information under the heading “Customers” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s business is very competitive and increased competition could reduce its sales. The Company competes with domestic and foreign producers of specialty steel products. In addition, many of the finished products sold by the Company’s customers are in direct competition with finished products manufactured by foreign sources, which may affect the demand for those customers’ products. Any competitive factors that adversely affect the market for finished products manufactured by the Company or its customers could indirectly adversely affect the demand for the Company’s semi-finished products. Additionally, the Company’s products compete with products fashioned from alternative materials such as aluminum, composites and plastics, the production of which includes domestic and foreign enterprises. Competition in the Company’s field is intense and is expected to continue to be so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. See the information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A substantial amount of the Company’s sales are derived from the aerospace industry. Approximately 52% of the Company’s sales and 37% of tons shipped represent products sold to customers in the aerospace market in 2012. The aerospace market is historically cyclical due to both external and internal market factors. These factors include general economic conditions, diminished credit availability, airline profitability, demand for air travel, age of fleets, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation can be influenced by any one or a combination of these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. A downturn in the aerospace industry would adversely affect the demand for products and/or the prices at which the Company is able to sell its products, and its results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company is dependent on the availability and price of raw materials. The Company purchases scrap metal and alloy additives, principally nickel, chrome, molybdenum, manganese and copper, for its melting operation. A substantial portion of the alloy additives is available only from foreign sources, some of which are located in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions. Those conditions might disrupt supplies or affect the prices of the raw materials used by the Company. The Company maintains sales price surcharges to help offset the impact of raw material price fluctuations. The Company does not maintain long-term supply agreements with any of its raw material suppliers. If its supply of raw materials were interrupted, the Company might not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, or obtain sufficient quantities of such materials at satisfactory prices, which, in either case, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, significant volatility in the price of the Company’s principal raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and there can be no assurance that the raw material surcharge mechanism employed by the Company will completely offset immediate changes in the Company’s raw material costs. See the information under the headings “Raw Materials” in Item 1, Business, and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Future Outlook” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 Table of Contents The Company is subject to risks associated with global economic and market factors. The Company’s results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of its customers, which in turn is affected by global economic and market factors impacting the industries and markets that they serve. The Company is susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad that may affect the general economic climate, its performance and the demand of its customers. The Company may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets deteriorate. There can be no assurance that global economic and market conditions will not adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flow or financial position in the future. The Company may experience a shortage in the supply of energy or an increase in energy costs to operate its facilities. The manufacturing of specialty steels is an energy-intensive industry. While the Company believes that its energy agreements allow it to compete effectively within the specialty steel industry, the Company is subject to curtailments as a result of decreased supplies and increased demand for electricity and natural gas. These interruptions not only can adversely affect the operating performance of the Company, but also can lead to increased costs for energy. See the information under the heading “Energy Agreements” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The Company depends on the continued service, availability and ability to attract skilled personnel, including members of its executive management team, management, metallurgists, maintenance and production positions. The inability of the Company and industry to attract and retain such people may adversely impact its ability to fill existing roles and support growth. Further, the loss of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s ability to perform until suitable replacements are found. The Company’s business may be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. At December 31, 2012, the Company had 518 employees out of a total of 724 who were covered under collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement for hourly employees at the Company’s Bridgeville facility expires in August 2013. Approximately 35% of the Company’s employees at December 31, 2012 were covered by this collective bargaining agreement. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in timely concluding collective bargaining agreements with the USW to succeed the agreements that expire. The Company’s business may be harmed by failures on critical manufacturing equipment. The Company’s manufacturing processes are dependent upon certain critical pieces of specialty steel making equipment, such as the Company’s 50-ton electric-arc furnace and AOD vessel, its ESR, VIM and VAR furnaces, its radial hydraulic forge and its universal rolling mill. In the event a critical piece of equipment should become inoperative as a result of unexpected equipment failure, there can be no assurance that the Company’s operations would not be substantially curtailed, which may have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. See Item 2, Properties. The Company’s business may be harmed if it is unable to meet its debt service requirements or the restrictive covenants in its Amended Credit Agreement or if interest rates increase. The Company has debt upon which it is required to make scheduled interest and principal payments, and the Company may incur additional debt in the future. A significant portion of the Company’s debt bears interest at variable rates that may increase in the future. The Company’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations, and its ability to refinance any of its indebtedness in the future if it determines that doing so would be advisable, will depend upon its future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets 8 Table of Contents that it serves and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash to service its debt or if interest rates increase, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The Amended Credit Agreement also requires the Company to comply with certain restrictive covenants. A failure to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in the Amended Credit Agreement could result in a default, which, if not waived by the Company’s lenders, could substantially increase the Company’s borrowing costs and result in acceleration of its debt. The Company was in compliance with the restrictive covenants in its Amended Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2012. The acquisition of the North Jackson Facility may not achieve its intended results. The Company acquired the North Jackson Facility with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits and synergies. The Company’s achievement of the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties. For example, it is possible that the integration process could take longer or cost more than anticipated and could result in the disruption of the Company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems. Further, the Company may not have discovered prior to closing all known and unknown factors regarding the assets acquired that could produce unintended and unexpected consequences for the Company. As a result, no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition will be realized or, if realized, the timing or cost of their realization. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits and synergies could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues associated with the acquired assets. The carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. The Company reviews goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, and a variety of other factors. Any future impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 