ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a wide range of substantial business and economic factors including, but not limited to, the factors discussed below, many of which are not within the Company’s control. See the information under the heading “Forward-Looking Information Safe Harbor” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATED CUSTOMER BASE Net sales to the Company’s three largest customers and their affiliates approximated 34%, 34% and 40% of total 2006, 2005 and 2004 sales, respectively. The accounts receivable balances from these three customers comprised approximately 23% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2006 and 2005. The Company’s five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 43% of 2006 net sales and 33% of receivables. An adverse change in, or termination of, the Company’s relationship with one or more of its major customers or one or more of its market segments could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. See the information under the heading “Customers” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPETITION The Company competes with domestic and foreign sources of specialty steel products. In addition, many of the finished products sold by the Company’s customers are in direct competition with finished products manufactured by foreign sources, which may affect the demand for those customers’ products. Any competitive factors that adversely affect the market for finished products manufactured by the Company or its customers could indirectly adversely affect the demand for the Company’s semi-finished products. Additionally, the Company’s products compete with products fashioned from alternative materials such as aluminum, composites and plastics, the production of which includes domestic and foreign enterprises. Competition in the Company’s field is intense and is expected to continue to be so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. See the information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AEROSPACE MARKET A large portion of the Company’s sales represent products sold to customers in the aerospace market. The aerospace market is historically cyclical due to both external and internal market factors. These factors include general economic conditions, airline profitability, demand for air travel, age of fleets, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation can be influenced by any one or a combination of these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. A downturn in the aerospace industry would adversely affect the demand for products and/or the prices at which the Company is able to sell its products, and its results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers, some of which are foreign owned, for its raw material needs. Raw material prices are affected by cyclical, seasonal and other market factors. Alloys consumed by the Company are primarily available from foreign sources, some of which are located in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic 8 conditions. Those conditions might disrupt supplies or affect the prices of the raw materials used by the Company. The Company does not maintain long-term supply agreements with any of its independent suppliers. If its supply of raw materials were interrupted, the Company might not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, or obtain sufficient quantities of such materials at satisfactory prices, which, in either case, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, significant volatility in the price of the Company’s principal raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. See the information under the headings “Raw Materials” in Item 1, Business, and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RELIANCE ON ENERGY AGREEMENTS The manufacturing of specialty steels is an energy-intensive industry. While the Company believes that its energy agreements allow it to compete effectively within the specialty steel industry, the Company is subjected to curtailments as a result of decreased supplies and increased demand for electricity and natural gas. These interruptions not only can adversely affect the operating performance of the Company, but also can lead to increased costs for energy. See the information under the heading “Energy Agreements” in Item 1, Business, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. LABOR MATTERS The Company has 438 employees out of a total of 527 who are covered under collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement for the Dunkirk facility employees will expire in October 2007. There can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in concluding a collective bargaining agreement with the union to replace the one that expires. RELIANCE ON CRITICAL MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT The Company’s manufacturing processes are dependent upon certain critical pieces of specialty steel making equipment, such as the Company’s electric-arc furnace, its ESR and VAR furnaces, and its universal rolling mill. In the event a critical piece of equipment should become inoperative as a result of unexpected equipment failure, there can be no assurance that the Company’s operations would not be substantially curtailed, which may have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. See Item 2, Properties. SAFETY MATTERS On February 28, 2006, the U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Organization (“OSHA”) promulgated a revised workplace occupational exposure limit standard for hexavalent chromium. Companies that produce or work with stainless steel may be required to construct and install engineering controls necessary to meet the new exposure limits. The Company believes that it is compliant with the revised standard and continues to evaluate its ability to comply with the revised standard. There can be no assurance that the Company, or its customers, operate in compliance with the revised standard and may be obligated to install engineering controls necessary to meet the new exposure limits or that the Company, or its customers, would have the financial resources to do so. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES In December 2005, the Company received a Notice of Violation from the EPA alleging violations of certain permitting issues at the Bridgeville facility. The Company is cooperating with the EPA to resolve these issues. See the information under the heading “Environmental” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 In the future, the Company may be required to file a report on internal accounting controls, in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, with the filing of future Form 10-Ks. In order to comply, the Company will be required to increase the amount of documentation surrounding its internal control system and provide evidence that the system has been properly tested to support management’s conclusions. While the Company believes its internal control system is adequate in all material respects, there is no assurance that the Company will not identify a material weakness requiring disclosure in the future. See information under the heading “Accounting Matter” in Item 1, Business, and in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. LEGAL MATTER The Company is currently defending itself in a suit that alleges it manufactured steel product, utilized in the manufacturing of crankshafts, that was defective. After in-depth investigation, it is the Company’s position that the suit is without merit. While the Company believes that insurance coverage is available for the defense and damages, if any, relating to the claim, an unfavorable ruling in the suit could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 