D. Risk factors In addition to the information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report. Provida’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The economic situation in Chile significantly affects Provida’s results The main source of Provida’s revenues from operations comes from the monthly fees charged to its contributors for mandatory contributions made in their individual capitalization accounts, which are compulsory for every salaried worker as long as there is a labor contract in force. These represented 84.2% of the total revenues from operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. As a result, the economic situation in Chile related to economic activity indicators and employment conditions significantly affects the Company’s results. 8 Table of Contents Macroeconomic conditions affect the financial capacity of employers and/or entrepreneurs, which might produce a drop in the number of employee contributors or a lack of capacity for creating new jobs, and decrease the salary of workers. Therefore, both variables—number of employee contributors and average salary—determine the salary base of the contributors and affect the Company’s results. An increase in the unemployment rate negatively affects Provida’s results and, depending on its magnitude, the impact could be significant. Additionally, Provida’s financial condition and operations results could also be adversely affected by changes in the economic policies implemented by the Chilean Government, political or economic developments in Chile or those affecting Chile. Changes in the development of the Chilean economy could adversely affect Provida’s ability to develop its business strategy. It is important to note that natural disasters occurring in Chile, (i.e. an earthquake, such as the one that occurred on February 27, 2010) could be another factor affecting the country's economy and thus Provida's results if they affect the unemployment level in the country, result in tax increases or cause significant damage to Provida’s assets. Pension funds are global investors, which are affected by the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic development Pension funds, such as those managed by Provida, are global investors and are therefore affected by both the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic factors. In recent years, pension fund returns have been subject to volatility in international and local financial markets, where foreign investments represented 42.6% of Provida’s total assets under management for the year ended December 31, 2013. The Pension Reform Law increased the percentage of investments which AFPs are allowed to make abroad, from a range between 30% to 45% to a range between 30% to 60% during the first twelve months following the enactment of the Pension Reform Law (from October 1, 2008 to September 30, 2009); and between 30% to 80% after the thirteenth month (October 1, 2009). In September 2008, the Central Bank gradually increased the maximum investments limits abroad: 45% as of October 1, 2008, 50% as of December 1, 2008, 55% as of April 1, 2009 and 60% as of August 3, 2009. In November 2010, the Central Bank increased again the maximum global investment limit abroad from 60% to 80%, gradually increasing as follows: 65% as of December 1, 2010, 70% as of March 1, 2011, 75% as of June 1, 2011 and 80% as of September 1, 2011. Such increases permit pension funds to have new investment opportunities, which could improve the diversity of their investment portfolios, but at the same time increase the potential exposure to the international markets of the total assets managed by the AFPs. The worldwide economy could affect Provida’s returns obtained on mandatory investments and therefore its net profit. Provida has limitations on significantly increasing its market position According to official statistics released by the Superintendency of Pensions, Provida has maintained a leading position in the private pension system since its incorporation, which has led to a market share of 35% in terms of number of participants and 28% in terms of assets under management. Given its position in this market and its relative size, it is highly probable that competitors will take steps toward attracting participants from Provida and persuading them to transfer their funds and make contributions to other AFPs, limiting Provida from significantly increasing its market share. A decrease in Provida’s participant portfolio could have a negative impact on its revenues from operations. Provida is limited in its ability to improve the performance of its assets under management Provida’s assets under management totaling MCh$23,821,383 (US$45.5 billion) as of December 31, 2013 are very large with respect to the size of the local capital market measured by its total capitalization. This reduces Provida’s flexibility to significantly modify its portfolio structures, and consequently to improve the return offered to its participants. Additionally, in situations of instability or uncertainty in the markets, Provida’s reactive capacity is likely to be limited. In this context, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to maintain a sufficient rate of return on its pension funds to decrease the number of participant transfers. Any decrease in Provida’s participant portfolio could have a negative impact on its revenues from operations. 9 Table of Contents Additionally, if pension fund returns managed by Provida do not achieve the legal minimum return established by law, due to any instability or uncertainty in capital markets as described above, the Company could lose part of its mandatory investments aimed at covering this difference. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services for participants’ contributions in the pension funds”. This portion must be replenished in a maximum term of 15 days to fulfill the legal requirement to maintain a reserve equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management and to continue with its business with the consequent reduction in the Company’s equity. Provida operates in a regulated market in which its flexibility to manage its business is limited Provida’s operations are regulated by the Pension Law and, to the extent applicable, Chilean corporation law. The Pension Law defines the scope of the business of pension fund administrators, which only permits Provida to engage in the administration of its pension funds and the rendering of related benefits. Provida is also authorized to establish local related corporations that may complement its line of business or invest in pension fund administrators or entities located in other countries whose business is related to pension matters. Regarding pension fund investments, Provida must invest such assets in accordance with the types of instruments and within the ranges of assets and maximum percentages allocated per investment and fund type authorized by the Pension Law. In addition, the Pension Law requires each AFP to maintain a minimum reserve fund known as mandatory investment equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management in order to provide a minimum return on investments for each of its pension funds. This minimum return is based on a weighted average of the return by all pension funds in the AFP system in a 36-month period. This requirement has been designated in accordance with different portfolio compositions, giving those with a higher component of variable income and therefore higher volatility (funds Type A and B), a larger margin to achieve the requirement. If a fund’s return for a certain month is lower than the minimum return, the AFP must cover the difference within a 5-day period. To do so, the AFP is permitted to apply funds from the mandatory investments, and in that event, such amount must be refunded within 15 days. In accordance with the Pension Law, if an AFP fails to comply with either the minimum return requirement or the minimum reserve fund requirement, it may eventually be required to be dissolved. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services for participants’ contributions in the pension funds”. The Pension Reform Law increased the investment limits for the pension funds. However, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to fulfill minimum return requirements or the minimum reserve. Provida’s business and results of operations may be affected by changes in laws, regulations or Chilean Government proposals On January 16, 2008, the Pension Reform Law in relation to the private pension system was approved and was published as the Republic Law (N° 20,255) in the Official Gazette on March 17, 2008. The first changes started to be implemented on July 1, 2008. Changes introduced by the reform can be summarized in four areas: coverage improvement, new industrial organization, investments and new institutional framework. As a result of the implementation of the Pension Reform Law, there is a bidding process of all new participants entering the system every two years beginning in July 2010 and for a 24 month period, to the AFP offering the lowest variable fee is awarded the new participant`s accounts. This fee must be lower than the lowest fee operating in the industry and must apply to the AFP’s entire portfolio and not only to the portion awarded. Provida’s management believes that the approved reform consolidates the current private pension system and provides an adequate legal framework for AFPs to continue developing their activities. In reference to the coverage improvement, Provida believes that this implies a new business opportunity for AFPs. Additionally, Provida believes that the flexibility of investment alternatives makes increased competition possible. However, future changes in laws or regulations in Chile may have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. In addition, Provida is subject to changes in tax laws. Reflecting the above, in September 2012 Chile implemented a new tax law maintaining the applicable tax rate at 20% instead of lowering the rate to 18.5% for 2012 and 17% from 10 Table of Contents 2013 thereon, as established in a previous change in tax law made in 2010. Further increases in applicable taxes, or other negative tax treatment, could have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. The risk of a higher casualty rate and the consequent effect on expenses from operations is subject to the fluctuation of interest rates for life annuities and the returns achieved by pension funds In terms of expenses from operations, life and disability insurance has represented a significant source of expenditures for the Company. Life and disability insurance is considered a long-term obligation because the benefits to disabled participants are rendered following the final disability determination test, which is three years after the initial disability determination (partial disability is defined as a decrease between one half and two thirds of one’s working capacity). Until October 2009, the total disability benefits (total disability is defined as a decrease in more than two thirds of one’s working capacity) were also granted three years after the initial disability determination. Before the changes introduced by the Pension Reform Law, including the bidding process for life and disability insurance by all the AFPs in July 2009 (see “Item 3. Key Information —Recent Regulatory Changes”), Provida was legally obligated to provide life and disability benefits by individually contracting compliant insurance. Even though the Pension Reform Law eliminated the AFP’s individual obligation regarding the coverage of casualties beginning on July 1, 2009, by awarding the life and disability administration to a group of insurers, the obligation of those casualties pending payment due to temporary disability under coverage as of June 30, 2009 will remain as Provida’s. At the moment that the final disability determination is made, the AFP is obligated to cover any shortfall equivalent to the difference between a participant’s savings in his/her individual capitalization account and the benefits granted to him/her by law. These benefits relate to the present value of the life annuity pension discounted by the life annuity rates in force at the time of the payment. Such pension will be equivalent to a percentage of the participant’s average taxable remuneration for the last ten years depending on the decrease of his/her working capacity: i.e., 50% of his/her taxable income in case of experiencing a loss of between one-half and two-thirds of working capacity, and 70% of his/her taxable income in case of experiencing a loss of more than two-thirds of working capacity. As a result, changes in interest rates impact the final value of an AFP’s payment obligations. According to the last insurance contract policy with coverage effective between January 1, 2005 and June 30, 2009, between Provida and BBVA Seguros de Vida entered into before the implementation of the Pension Reform Law, the Company had the obligation to make additional premium payments if the casualty costs were greater than the temporary payments, up to a maximum amount previously defined. The risk of a greater casualty cost and its consequent effect on the Company’s expenses from operations was subject to the returns of life annuities and pension funds beginning on July 1, 2009, factors that had an inverse relationship with the economic cost of casualties. Therefore, the Administrator could be forced to pay additional contributions if such factors deteriorate and result in a negative effect. Provida requested BBVA Seguros de Vida, in conformity with the new regulation, to value reserves at the prevailing market interest rate instead of a historical interest rate (defined as the minimum interest rate of the previous semester) so that the Company’s liability would more accurately reflect the amount that would be effectively paid (i.e. fair value). Moreover, by mutual consent of the parties (previous compensation to the insurer for change in conditions), the financial performance of cash flows surplus was modified with a benchmark determined by assets of similar duration to that of the insurance liability. In view of changes made in the management of assets and liabilities associated with the life and disability insurance, AFP Provida has mitigated the risk associated with interest rate fluctuation. As of December 2013, the Company continued recording its obligations for this concept at fair value in accordance with the casualty model that considers the future evolution of relevant variables under prudent scenarios, which might include constituting higher provisions than those required by law that correspond to the surplus of the insurers’ balance sheets. Provida recorded an expense in its provisions for unfavorable casualty rate of MCh$1,940 as of December 31, 2013, primarily due to the constitution of reserves for possible survival claims that may arise related to deceased participants that were paid disability pensions (MCh$3,478) as of December 31, 2013. 11 Table of Contents Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurers such that the risk of failure of an insurer to pay any required shortfall amount is borne by Provida Under the Pension Reform Law, the Pension Fund Administrators together must purchase insurance for their affiliates, called life and disability insurance (SIS). The right to provide such insurance is awarded through a bidding process, which is carried out by all AFPs. In the case of bankruptcy of all involved insurance companies, the State guarantees the necessary additional contributions to complete the required amount to finance the life and disability pension through the State guarantee. The coverage of such guarantee is 100% of the prevailing minimum pension and 75% of the excess of the pension with a maximum of UF 45 per month (MCh$1 approximately) for each beneficiary or pensioner. 