D. Risk factors In addition to the information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report. Provida’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The economic situation in Chile significantly affects Provida’s results The main source of Provida’s operating revenues comes from the monthly fees charged to its contributors for mandatory contributions made in their individual capitalization accounts, which are compulsory for every salaried worker as long as there is a labor contract in force. These represented 108.9% of the total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. As a result, the economic situation in Chile related to growth activity indicators and employment conditions significantly affects the Company’s results. Macroeconomic conditions have repercussions on the financial capacity of employers and/or entrepreneurs, which might produce a drop in the number of employee-contributors or a lack of capacity for creating new jobs as well as increasing the income of workers. Therefore, both variables –number of employee-contributors and average salaries, determine the salary base of the contributors and affect the Company’s results. An increase in the unemployment rate negatively affects Provida’s results and, depending on its magnitude, the impact could be significant. Additionally, Provida’s financial condition and operations results could also be adversely affected by changes in the economic policies implemented by the Chilean Government, political or economic developments in Chile or those affecting Chile. Changes in development of the Chilean economy could adversely affect Provida’s ability to develop its business strategy. Pension funds are global investors, which are affected by the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic development Pension funds, such as those managed by Provida, are global investors and are therefore affected by both the economies of neighboring countries as well as by worldwide economic factors. In recent years, pension fund returns have been subject to volatility in international and local financial markets, where foreign investments represented 27.4% of Provida’s total assets under management for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Pension Reform Law increased the permitted abroad investment range available to AFPs, from a range between 30% to 45% to a range between 30% to 60% during the first twelve months following the enactment of the Pension Reform Law (October 1, 2008 to September 30, 2009) and between 30% to 80% commencing on the thirteenth month (October 1, 2009). During the first twelve months, the Central Bank also established the gradual increase in the maximum limits on the AFPs’ investment: 45% starting on October 1, 2008, 50% beginning on December 1, 2008, 55% beginning on April 1, 2009 and 60% beginning on August 3, 2009. Such reform permits pension funds to have new investment opportunities, which could improve the diversity of their investment portfolios, but at the same time increases the potential exposure of the total assets managed by such AFPs to the international markets. The worldwide economy could affect Provida’s returns obtained on mandatory investments and therefore its net income. Provida’s returns on its investments in foreign companies could be affected by changes in the regulatory environment, the exchange rates and the economic situation of the countries where such companies are located Provida through its subsidiary Provida Internacional S.A. (“Provida Internacional”) maintains equity interests in private pension fund administrators operating in Peru, Ecuador and Mexico, whose results represented in the aggregate MCh$1,542 (MUS$2.4) of Provida’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2008. These foreign administrators are highly regulated, which generates certain stability. However, Provida cannot ensure that changes 8 Table of Contents in the laws of those countries where these subsidiaries are located could not affect its results. Further, given the link between the results of the pension business and the economic conditions in the countries where the Company operates, a change in the economic situation of those countries could affect Provida’s results. In accordance with the accounting policies, particularly Technical Bulletin N° 64, issued by the Chilean Institute of Accountants, the devaluation of domestic currencies against the US dollar and the appreciation of the latter with respect to the Chilean currency could adversely affect the income from foreign related companies recognized by Provida and therefore their respective returns. Provida has limitations on significantly increasing its market position According to official statistics released by the Superintendency of Pensions, Provida has maintained a leading position in the private pension system since its incorporation, which has led to a market share around 40% in terms of number of clients and over 40% in terms of assets under management and the associated salary base. Given its position in this market and its relative size, it is highly probable that competitors will take steps towards attracting participants from Provida and persuading them to transfer their funds and make contributions to other AFPs, limiting Provida from significantly increasing its market share. A decrease in Provida’s client portfolio could have a negative impact on its operating revenues. Provida is limited in its ability to improve the performance of its assets under management Provida’s assets under management totaling MCh$14,378,254 (US$22.6 billion) as of December 31, 2008 are very large with respect to the size of the local capital market measured by its total capitalization. The latter reduces Provida’s flexibility to significantly modify its portfolio structures, and consequently to improve the return offered to its affiliates. Additionally, in situations of instability or uncertainty in the markets, Provida’s reactive capacity is likely to be limited. In this context, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to maintain a sufficient rate of return on its pension funds to attract new affiliations or decrease the number of affiliate transfers. Any decrease in Provida’s client portfolio could have a negative impact on its operating revenues. Additionally, if pension fund returns managed by Provida do not achieve the legal minimum return established by law, due to any instability or uncertainty in capital markets as described above, the Company could lose part of its mandatory investments aimed at covering this difference. (See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services of affiliates’ contributions in the pension funds”). This portion must be replenished in a maximum term of 15 days to fulfill the legal requirement to maintain a reserve equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management and to continue with its business with the consequent reduction in the Company’s equity. Provida operates in a regulated market in which its flexibility to manage its business is limited Provida’s operations are regulated by the Pension Law and, to the extent applicable, Chilean corporation law. The Pension Law defines the scope of the business of pension fund administrators, which only permits Provida to engage in the administration of its pension funds and the rendering of related benefits. Provida is also authorized to establish local related corporations that may complement its line of business or invest in pension fund administrators or entities located in other countries whose business is related to pension matters. Regarding pension fund investments, Provida must invest such assets in accordance with the types of instruments and within the ranges of assets and maximum percentages allocated per investment and fund type authorized by the Pension Law. In addition, the Pension Law requires each AFP to maintain a minimum reserve fund known as mandatory investment equal to 1% of the value of each pension fund under management in order to provide a minimum real return on investment for each of its pension funds. This minimum return is based on a weighted average of the real return by all pension funds in the AFP system in a 36-month period. This requirement has been designated in accordance with different portfolio composition, giving those with a higher component of variable income and therefore higher volatility (funds Type A and B), a larger margin to achieve the requirement. If a fund’s real return for a certain month were lower than the minimum return, the AFP must cover the difference within a 5-day period. 9 Table of Contents To do so, the AFP is permitted to apply funds from the mandatory investments, and in that event, such amount must be refunded within 15 days. In accordance with the Pension Law, if an AFP fails to observe either the minimum return requirement or the minimum reserve fund requirement, it may eventually be required to be dissolved. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Principal activities—Investment services of affiliates’ contributions in the pension funds”. The Pension Reform Law has increased the investment limits for the pension funds. However, Provida cannot ensure that it will be able to fulfill minimum return requirement or the minimum reserve. Provida’s business and results of operations may be affected by changes in laws, regulations or Chilean Government proposals On January 16, 2008, the Pension Reform Law to the private pension system was approved and was published as the Republic Law (N° 20,255) in the Official Gazette on March 17, 2008. The first changes started to be implemented on July 1, 2008. Changes introduced by the reform can be summarized into four areas: coverage improvement, new industrial organization, investments and new institutional framework. Provida’s management believes that the approved reform consolidates the current private pension system after 26 years of existence and confirms an adequate legal framework for AFPs to continue developing their activities. In reference to the coverage improvement, Provida believes that this implies a new business opportunity for AFPs. Regarding the new industrial organization aimed at increasing competition and reducing entrance barriers, Provida has the support of the BBVA Group, which has a leading position in the Latin-American pensions market, as well as a competitive advantage in successfully facing the new conditions in the industry. Additionally, Provida estimates that the flexibility of investment alternatives makes it possible for increased competition. However, future changes in laws or regulations in Chile may have a negative effect on Provida’s financial results. Life and disability insurance is the main component of operating expenses, therefore an increase in the casualty rate of the client’s portfolio, or future changes in the market conditions or in the assumptions of our casualty model, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations By law, Provida is required to provide life and disability benefits to its affiliates and is required to obtain insurance to comply with this obligation. An insurance policy negotiated with the insurance company covers Provida’s life and disability payment obligations over a certain casualty rate level. Provida pays all casualties up to the maximum rate specified in the contract (1.10% under a contract with BBVA Seguros de Vida S.A. in effect from August 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 and 1.27% under a contract with BBVA Seguros de Vida S.A. in effect from January 1, 2005 for an undefined term). The insurance policy conditions were modified by mutual agreement of the parties with effect from January 2008 to update the mortality tables used to calculate benefits, increasing the cost of the insurance. In figures, the maximum casualty rate increased to 1.70%, accompanied by a rise of the fee charged by the AFP from 2.39% to 2.59% in order to finance such higher cost. Additionally, in October 2008 the fee was increased again to 2.64% in view of the new benefits granted by the Pension Reform Law to female affiliates and their spouses. The changes previously mentioned will not have any retroactive effect over Provida’s financial statements for 2008 and prior years. In addition, if the insurance company were unable to meet its obligations under the insurance contract, Provida would be required to make the payments that would otherwise have been covered by the insurance company. Therefore, fluctuations in Provida’s estimates of what the actual casualty rate will be for any given period—which determine the expenses and accruals Provida will be required to record—significantly affect its results of operations. If the Company used different assumptions to calculate the casualty rate, its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on Provida—B. Business overview—Primary expenses” and “Item 5—Operating and financial review and prospects—Critical accounting policies—Accounting of life and disability insurance costs”. The Pension Reform Law introduces a requirement for a public bidding process to be held by all AFPs to insure their life and disability obligations at a common premium applicable to all AFPs. Such insurance will be awarded to 10 Table of Contents one or more insurers offering the best economic terms. Under the Pension Reform Law, awarding the insurance to more than one insurer will contribute to avoiding the risk of excessive concentration for the coverage of whole-life and disability insurance liabilities. Such initiative will be implemented a year following the Pension Reform Law’s enactment, that is, the second semester of 2009. Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurers such that the risk of failure of an insurer to pay any required shortfall amount is borne by Provida Under Provida’s insurance policies for 2007 and 2008, the insurer was required to cover all life and disability benefits in excess of a maximum casualty rate level of 1.27% of the aggregate taxable income of Provida’s affiliates. However, if the insurer were not able to make any required payments to affiliates, Provida would be responsible for such payments. Accordingly, Provida is exposed to the credit risk of the insurer to the extent of claims not paid prior to any bankruptcy, dissolution, or winding up (or similar events) of the insurance company that would render it unable to satisfy its obligations under the insurance contract. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause Provida to bear material additional costs, which could significantly affect its results. Under the Pension Reform Law as previously mentioned, it is likely that the winning bid will come from a group of insurance companies, thus decreasing the credit risk assumed by AFPs. Additionally, in the case of bankruptcy of all involved insurance companies, the benefits payments will be covered by a State guarantee. However, the issuance of ancillary regulations by the Superintendency is still pending, which will specify responsibilities of the different participants in the life and disability insurance. 