Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and shareholders may lose part or all of their investment. Therefore, shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. The future price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to factors, involving our competitors or us, such as: • new product announcements or changes in product pricing policies; • quarterly and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technical innovations; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; 8 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • general conditions in the economy and/or levels of information technology spending. In addition, the market prices of securities issued by many companies, particularly in high-technology industries, are volatile for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. This industry volatility, along with broad market fluctuations, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly and seasonal sales operating results vary. These operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our sales operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or season to season in the future. Because of these fluctuations, our operating results for a particular quarter may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock may decline. These fluctuations could cause period-to-period comparisons to be less than meaningful. Numerous factors contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results, including: • fluctuations in quarterly sales patterns; • seasonality factors discussed below; • the timing of customer orders; • constraints on our manufacturing and assembly operations; • shortages or increases in the prices of raw materials and components; • changes in our mix of products and distribution channels; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new versions of our products; • the announcement or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • pricing pressures; • costs related to the acquisition of technologies or businesses; • costs of maintaining, integrating or expanding our operations; • costs of hiring qualified personnel; • technological changes in our market, including changes in standards for protocols, platforms and operating systems applicable to software, hardware and networking environments; • costs associated with outside service providers, such as legal counsel and auditors, and taxes owed by us; • general economic conditions; and • exchange rate fluctuations. Most of our software product revenue comes from current-quarter orders and sales, of which a substantial portion has, at times, occurred in the last month of the quarter. We do not maintain a large backlog of orders and most of our distributors maintain little or no inventory. Order fulfillment cycles are typically short and often as short as one to two days. Accordingly, the timing of customer orders can cause significant variations in quarterly results of operations. Because we sell our products to end-customers through various third parties, such as value-added resellers and independent distributors, we are unable to predict with certainty the actual orders, sales and revenue these third parties will generate in a given quarter. These factors could impair and delay our ability to know when revenue and earnings will be higher or lower than expected. We plan our expenditure levels and product development on our expected revenue. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, we may be unable to adjust our spending in time to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in quarterly revenue. Our results of operations may also fluctuate as a result of seasonal factors and this may cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors for a particular quarter. Specifically, due to typical year-end dealer sales patterns and end-user buying patterns, revenue in our first quarter, without taking into account the effect of acquisitions, has historically declined from the fourth quarter of the previous year. Subsequent to year end, we acquired Océ Document Technologies GmbH and renamed it Captaris Document Technologies GmbH (“CDT”). (We discuss this acquisition in further detail in this report under Subsequent Events in Item 7, Management’s 9 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.) CDT transacts business in Euros and its revenue, expenses and results of operations will be translated to U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. We expect a significant portion of our consolidated revenue in 2008 to come through CDT. As such, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of changes in foreign currency rates between the Euro and U.S. dollar. This may cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors for a particular quarter or year. We depend on third parties for key components of our RightFax product. Until October 2007, two domestic suppliers provided fax processing circuit boards to meet our specifications, Dialogic Corporation and Cantata Technology, Inc. Historically, we have relied almost exclusively on Cantata for fax boards primarily because of volume price discounts and the cost and effort required to develop software for alternate fax boards. In October 2007, Dialogic announced that it had acquired all of the outstanding stock of EAS Group, Inc., which owns Cantata. As a result, our suppliers of fax boards are now consolidated under the control of a single parent company, Dialogic. Significant changes in technology, issues regarding quality performance, delays, interruptions or reductions in our supply of fax boards, or unfavorable changes to price and delivery terms could adversely affect our business. We may be relatively more impacted by these issues now that Dialogic controls Cantata. We rely heavily on independent distributors, value-added resellers and IT service partners. A substantial majority of our revenue depends on a network of computer-oriented value-added resellers, independent distributors and IT service partners. There is intense competition for the attention of these resellers from our competitors and from providers of other products distributed through these channels. Many of these resellers do not have the financial resources to withstand a downturn in their businesses. We may not be able to maintain or expand our network of resellers in the future. Moreover, our resellers may not maintain or expand their present level of efforts to sell our products. If we lose a major dealer or reseller, or if our dealers and resellers lose interest in selling our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Failure to establish and maintain OEM and strategic relationships could limit our ability to maintain or increase revenue. Creating and maintaining OEM and strategic relationships is important to our success because these relationships enable us to market and distribute our products to a larger customer base than we could otherwise reach through our direct marketing efforts. We may not be successful in creating new OEM or strategic relationships on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, although we view our OEM and strategic relationships as an important factor in the successful commercialization of our products, our current strategic partners may not view their relationships with us as significant for their own businesses and any one of them could reassess their commitment to us in the future. Further, our OEM and strategic relationships are generally non-exclusive, which means our OEM and strategic partners may develop relationships with some of our competitors. Failure of one or more of our OEM and strategic partners to successfully develop and sustain a market for our products, or the termination of one or more of our OEM and strategic relationships, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase revenue. Additionally, our OEM and strategic partners, from time to time, require us to customize our products and/or develop further enhancements or capabilities. If we are unable to meet these requests in a timely manner, our relationships with our partners and operating results could be negatively impacted. Our market is highly competitive. The business solutions market is highly competitive and is rapidly changing. We may not have the financial resources, marketing, distribution, service capability and depth of key personnel or technological knowledge to continue to compete successfully in each of our markets. We believe the main competitive factors affecting our business are breadth and quality of software alternatives, product integration capabilities, product functionality, performance, reliability, ease of use, ability to update our products to respond to technological change, relationships with distributors, strategic partners, value-added resellers and systems integrators, price, size of the installed base, level of customer support and professional services. 10 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. In the market for LAN-based fax systems, our principal competitors are Esker, Inc. S.A., Biscom, Inc., TOPCALL International AG, Omtool, Ltd., Fenestrae, GFI Software, Ltd. and SAGEM-Interstar. Our fax server products also compete broadly with vendors offering a range of alternative fax solutions, including operating systems containing fax and document transmission features, low-end fax modem products, desktop fax software, single-platform fax software products, outsource fax providers and customized proprietary software solutions. The direct competitors of our business process automation products include K2.net (SourceCode Technology Holdings, Ltd.), Metastorm and Ultimus, Inc. Our main competitors of our document archiving products are Hyland Software, Inc. (OnBase product), EMC Corporation / Documentum (ApplicationXtender, EmailXtender products) and Compulink Business Systems, Inc. (Laserfiche product). For our capture products, our main competitors are Nuance’s Scansoft division, ABBYY and Iris. In addition, we compete against EMC/Captiva, Dicom/Kofax, and ReadSoft among others. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the competitive pressures we face could harm our business and prospects. We expect the competition in our markets to increase over time. There can be no assurance that our current or future competitors will not develop products comparable or superior – in terms of price and performance features – to those developed by us or be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in market opportunities. Increased competition and competitive pressures may result in changes in market share, decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs associated with marketing and sales incentives, resulting in related reductions in revenue, gross margins and operating income, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our financial and business goals. There can be no assurance in the future that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors. Technology and customer demands change rapidly in our industry. In our industry, technology and customer demands change rapidly and our competitors frequently introduce new products and features. To succeed, we must identify, develop and market new products, features and services that are compatible with a growing array of computer and peripheral devices, support popular computer and network operating systems and applications, and achieve broad market acceptance by satisfying evolving customer needs and keeping pace with those technological developments. To do this, we must spend substantial funds on product development. We regularly devote significant resources to technologies that we anticipate will be widely adopted. To be successful, we must, among other things, develop and market products and services that achieve broad market acceptance. We may not be able to develop new products or product enhancements on a timely basis. Even if we do, the market may not accept the new products or product enhancements that we develop and accordingly, the results of our operations may be adversely affected. We may require additional capital in the future and may be unable to obtain this capital at all or on commercially reasonable terms. The development and marketing of products requires significant amounts of capital. If we need additional capital resources, we may be required to sell additional equity or debt securities, secure additional lines of credit or obtain other third party financing. The timing and amount of such capital requirements cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of other factors, including demand for our existing and new products and changes in technology in the networking industry. We may also need to raise additional funding if we decide to undertake more rapid expansion, including acquisitions of complementary products or technologies. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms when needed, if at all. Failure to raise such additional financing, if needed, may result in our inability to achieve our long-term business objectives. Moreover, if we need to issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional capital, any such issuance could result in significant dilution to our shareholders. Our business is affected by adverse economic conditions and resulting declines in customers’ investments in our products. Our profitability may be adversely affected by global economic conditions and a prolonged economic slowdown. Generally, we derive net revenue primarily from licensing software as well as follow-on sales of add-on software modules and the sale of maintenance and support agreements. We group our revenues based on whether the revenue is non-recurring revenue (revenues from sales of software) or recurring revenue (revenues from maintenance and support agreements). During a short-term economic slowdown, non-recurring revenue is adversely affected because customers are reluctant to buy software, but this adverse impact is generally offset by recurring revenue from long-term maintenance and service contracts. During a prolonged economic slowdown, however, the reluctance of our customers to invest has an adverse impact on both recurring and non-recurring revenue because both 11 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. types of revenue are to a large extent based on our installed base. As long-term maintenance contracts expire during a prolonged economic slowdown, we enter into fewer new long-term agreements to replace expiring contracts because fewer customers make investments in software during the slowdown. We are highly dependent on information technology systems. Our operations rely on complex information technology systems and networks, which are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. We are constantly evaluating our current technology and information technology systems. Although we take precautions against interruptions of our information technology systems and networks and the unrestricted disclosure of our proprietary information, a prolonged interruption of our information technology systems or a disclosure of our proprietary data could adversely affect our business. We face risks from our international operations. Maintaining or growing our revenue depends, in part, on our international product sales. We focus significant management attention and financial resources toward our international operations and, with the acquisition of CDT in January 2008, we have significantly expanded these operations. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations to promote our brand internationally and to develop localized systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. Significant portions of our revenue are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which include: • difficulty adapting products to local languages and technologies; • inability to respond to changes in regulatory requirements; • inability to meet special standards requirements; • exposure to exchange rate fluctuations; • restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); • import or export licensing requirements, restrictions, tariffs and other regulatory restrictions; • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more protective employment laws; • limitations on the repatriation of funds; • longer receivables cycles; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • uncertainties arising from local economic or market conditions, local business practices and cultural considerations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Moreover, we could be sued for patent infringement or other intellectual property violations in a foreign country where it could be very costly to defend such a lawsuit. Currently, our United States sales and some international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We also may price our international sales to Europe in Euros, to the United Kingdom in British pounds sterling, to Canada in Canadian dollars, and to Australia in Australian dollars. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar against these currencies could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country or region, leading to reduced revenue or profitability in that country or region. We expect to continue expanding our international operations. As a result, we expect our non-U.S.-dollar-denominated sales and our exposure to gains and losses on international currency transactions will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a given quarter or year. As of the date of this report, a significant amount of our cash is held by our German subsidiary, and if we are not able to repatriate these funds in a timely manner, our liquidity may suffer. 12 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. Since the acquisition of CDT in early January 2008 and through the date of this report, the majority of our consolidated cash is held by CDT in Germany. As of the date of this report, CDT is restricted under German law from repatriating its cash to Captaris in repayment of an intercompany loan established to fund the acquisition of CDT. As discussed in more detail in Item 7 of this report under Liquidity and Capital Resources, we are taking specific actions which we believe will allow CDT to repatriate its excess cash to Captaris during the second quarter of 2008. There can be no assurances that our actions will be successful or completed in a timely manner. Our inability to complete these actions in a successful and timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The outstanding intercompany loan to our wholly-owned subsidiary of €31.6 million ($46.2 million) exposes us to significant gains and losses from fluctuations in the exchange rate to U.S. dollars. To mitigate this risk, we have entered into a foreign currency exchange forward contract, agreeing to sell approximately €31.6 million at a future date. This contract is unsecured and matures on April 4, 2008. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, our foreign currency forward contract is an effective hedge of our foreign currency risk exposure on the intercompany loan. However, until our subsidiary can remit cash in repayment of the intercompany loan, which we would then use to settle the foreign currency forward contract, we are exposed to potentially significant U.S. dollar cash flow risks. To the extent that the foreign currency forward contract is in a loss position on the date of maturity, we must settle the contract in U.S. dollars equal to the amount of the loss. Additionally, we intend to continue to hedge our foreign currency exposure on the intercompany loan until it is repaid in full. This will require us to enter into a new foreign currency contract when our existing foreign currency contract expires on April 4, 2008. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain a new foreign currency contract at the same rate or similar unsecured terms. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate volatility in our international operations, which may result in currency translation losses that could have material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The results of operations and financial condition of our international operations and subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of certain balances denominated in foreign currencies. For example, with respect to our net assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, a strengthening U.S. dollar would result in less net assets when converted to U.S. dollars, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. As we have expanded our international operations, and particularly with the acquisition of CDT in early January 2008, our exposure to these exchange rate risks has increased. As of the date of this report, a significant portion of our net assets are denominated in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in Canadian dollars, Australian dollars and British pounds sterling. Moreover, with the acquisition of CDT, a significant portion of our consolidated revenue will be denominated in Euros. Historically, we have not hedged our foreign currency translation risk. Although we may do so in the future, there can be no assurance that any such actions will entirely mitigate our exposure to these risks. The integration of recent and any future acquisitions may be difficult and disruptive, and we may incur significant costs in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions. We frequently evaluate potential acquisitions of products, technologies and businesses. Any acquisitions we may undertake may direct management’s attention away from the day-to-day operations of our business and may pose numerous other risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we may acquire or retain customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may be subject to further regulatory approvals, we may be entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and we may be unable to retain key employees or to recruit additional managers with the necessary skills to supplement the management of the acquired businesses. In addition, we may need to make significant cash payments and dilutive issuances of our equity securities, incur debt, assume unknown liabilities, write-off purchased in-process research and development, amortize expenses related to other intangible assets and incur restructuring charges as well as costs of integrating personnel and operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In connection with our evaluation of, and negotiation with, potential acquisition candidates, we may incur significant costs, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees. We have typically deferred and, upon completion of the transaction, capitalized the acquisition costs as part of the purchase price. However, if the acquisition is abandoned without completion, we would write off the deferred expenses as a charge to operating expenses in the quarter in which we concluded the transaction would not be completed. In some cases, particularly when a potential acquisition is abandoned in the late stages of the due diligence and negotiation process, the acquisition costs may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the quarter and year in which we recognize the charge. Beginning on, but not before, January 1, 2009, our practices with respect to acquisition costs will change to comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007) (“SFAS No. 141R”), Business Combinations, which 13 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. replaces SFAS No. 141 and amends several others. SFAS No. 141R does not allow us to defer acquisition costs and include them as part of the purchase price. Instead, SFAS No. 141R requires us to record all acquisition costs as a charge to operating expenses as we incur them. Our average sales prices may decline for some of our products. If the average sales prices of our more significant products decline, our overall gross margins will likely decline. To offset and forestall potential declines in average sales prices, we must continue to develop product enhancements and new products with advanced features that are likely to generate higher-margin incremental revenue. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, or if our products do not achieve significant customer acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Our business may be seriously harmed by third-party litigation against us relating to alleged violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We have been involved in an ongoing lawsuit in Circuit Court in Cook County, Illinois. The lawsuit was filed by Travel 100 Group, Inc. (“Travel 100”), against Mediterranean Shipping Company (“Mediterranean”). The complaint alleges violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act in connection with the receipt of facsimile advertisements that were transmitted by MediaTel Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Captaris, on behalf of travel service providers, including Mediterranean. All of the assets of MediaTel were sold to a subsidiary of PTEK Holdings, Inc. on September 1, 2003. Under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, a court can impose liability of $500 per fax on a party that sends a fax without consent of the recipient and can increase the liability to $1,500 per fax if the sending of the fax is willful. The Travel 100 complaint sought injunctive relief and unspecified damages and certification as a class action on behalf of Travel 100 and others similarly situated throughout the United States that received the facsimile advertisements. Mediterranean named Captaris as a third-party defendant and asserted that, to the extent that it is liable, Captaris should be liable under theories of indemnification, contribution or breach of contract for any damages suffered by Mediterranean. Both Captaris and MediaTel have denied any liability in the case because, among other facts and defenses, MediaTel understood that the database and lists of travel agent recipients to whom faxes were sent had authorized that information could be sent to them by fax. On September 29, 2006, the court in the Mediterranean case granted summary judgment in favor of Mediterranean and Captaris and dismissed the case. In granting summary judgment, the court ruled that Travel 100 had invited the facsimile advertisements and there was no violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. Travel 100 filed a motion for reconsideration, which the court denied. Travel 100 then filed a notice of appeal on December 29, 2006. All briefing on the appeal is complete, however no date has been set for oral argument. Our insurance carrier has agreed to pay defense costs in the Mediterranean case but has reserved its rights to contest their duty to indemnify Captaris with respect to this matter. We are vigorously defending the Mediterranean case, but litigation is subject to numerous uncertainties and we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this case. Moreover, even if the plaintiff prevails on the appeal, the plaintiff will still need to certify a class. The amount of any potential liability in connection with the case, will depend, to a large extent, on whether a class is certified, and if one is certified, on what the scope of that class will be, neither of which can be predicted at this time. We have not recorded a liability related to the Mediterranean case. However, there is no guarantee that we will not determine in the future that an accrual is required or that we will not be required to pay damages in respect of the Mediterranean case in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition for the quarter or year in which any accrual is recorded or any damages are paid. We have tendered this claim to our general liability insurance carrier and the carrier has agreed to pay defense costs. However, the carrier has reserved its rights to contest their duty to indemnify Captaris with respect to the matter. Even if coverage is determined to apply, since the potential liability of the claim is substantially in excess of our coverage limits, there can be no assurance that our coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any damages we are required to pay. Regardless of the outcome, the Mediterranean case may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. 14 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. Our products may suffer from defects or errors, which could result in loss of revenue, delayed or limited market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Software products as complex as ours may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Commercial release of past versions of our products were delayed until software problems were corrected, and in some cases, we have provided product updates to correct errors in released products. Our new products or releases may not be free from errors after commercial shipments have begun. Any errors that are discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damages to our reputation, increased service and warranty costs or claims against us. Security breach of confidential data may expose us to additional costs and to litigation, which could harm our business. Our products may involve the transmission or storage of business-critical, proprietary or confidential information. If the security measures that we incorporate in our products are breached or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we could be exposed to litigation and possible liability. Even if we were not held liable, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could harm our reputation and even the perception of a security risk could inhibit market acceptance of our products and services. In addition, we may be required to invest additional resources to protect us against damages caused by these actual or perceived disruptions of security breaches in the future. Further, our applications may be vulnerable to unauthorized and illegal access, sabotage, computer viruses and other disruptive problems, including natural disasters. Eliminating computer viruses and addressing other security problems may cause either loss or compromise of data or interruptions, delay or cessation of service to users accessing our business information delivery applications, which could harm our business, expose us to risks of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, nondisclosure and other agreements, and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology, but those measures may be insufficient. Our competitors may challenge or circumvent the claims in our patents. Our current patents, or any future patents, may never provide us with any competitive advantages. Other measures that we take to protect our proprietary technology may not prevent or deter misappropriation of our technology or the development of technologies with similar characteristics. Moreover, our use of open systems architecture in the design of our products may make it easier for competitors to misappropriate or replicate our designs and developments. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or be prevented from selling our products. If we are unable to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties, our operating margins may decline as a result. Product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. Historically, competitors in our industry have filed numerous allegations of patent infringement, resulting in considerable litigation. We periodically receive letters and other communications from third parties asserting patent rights and requesting royalty payments, among other remedies, and will probably receive additional claims in the future. Some of these claims are unresolved and continue to be outstanding, even after several years of intermittent communications. The ultimate outcome of any of these matters that continue to be outstanding or that may arise in the future cannot be determined, and there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any litigation, regardless of our success, would probably be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Litigation could also force us to: • stop or delay selling or using products that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages for infringement; 15 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. • obtain licenses, which may be unavailable on acceptable terms; or • redesign products or services that use the infringing technology. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover existing or future liability claims. We maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks of property loss. While we believe these arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with those risks or other events could exceed the coverage provided by such arrangements. Our credit facility contains financial and other covenant restrictions, and if we are unable to comply with these restrictions, the bank may declare an event of default. Our credit facility with Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC contains certain loan covenants, including, among others, financial covenants providing for a minimum EBITDA and maximum amount of capital expenditures, and limitations on our ability with regard to the incurrence of debt, the existence of liens, stock repurchases and dividends, investments, and mergers, dispositions and acquisitions, and events constituting a change in control. In addition, the credit facility contains events of default that include, among others, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, violation of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency events, material judgments, and cross defaults to certain other indebtedness. The occurrence of an event of default will increase the applicable rate of interest and could result in the acceleration of our obligations under the credit facility. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, or if an event of default otherwise occurs, our financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our business depends on successfully attracting and retaining key personnel in engineering, research and development, marketing, sales, finance and administration. We also depend, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management team. If we fail to recruit such personnel or lose the services of existing key personnel in any functional area, our current operations and new product development efforts could be adversely affected. Competition for skilled personnel is intense. Past reductions in force and any additional reductions in force we undertake may adversely impact employee morale and impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS No. 142”), we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. SFAS No. 142 requires us to test our goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. In the event that, in the future, we conclude that our goodwill or our amortizable intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements and that charge may significantly decrease our results of operations. We develop our products to operate on third party servers and platforms that are beyond our control, and any changes to those platforms or servers could have an adverse impact on our revenues or operating results. We believe our product portfolio is appropriately targeted for opportunities being created by third party development of servers and operating platforms such as Microsoft’s SharePoint Server and SQL Server. We do not develop these servers or platforms, have no control over changes to their functionality and cannot guaranty that these platforms will remain in the market. As a result, should changes to the platforms occur, we may be forced to incur significant costs to redesign our products or make them compatible with the modified platforms. We may also be forced to completely redesign our product portfolio if one or more of the platforms are no longer available. The costs associated with this could be significant and may have an adverse impact on our overall revenues and/or operating results. 16 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. In connection with our acquisition of Oce Document Technologies GmbH, we assumed certain unfunded pension liabilities. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy these obligations. In January 2008, we acquired Oce Document Technologies GmbH and, as a part of the transaction, assumed its unfunded pension plan liabilities of approximately $17.9 million as of January 4, 2008. We will be required to fund these obligations through current and future cash flows. Going forward, our net pension liability and cost may be materially affected by the discount rate used to measure these pension obligations and the longevity and actuarial profile of the relevant workforce. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of these pension obligations, affecting the net periodic pension cost in the year the change is made and following years. We have no assurance that we will generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy these obligations. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 