Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and shareholders may lose part or all of their investment. Therefore, shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. The future price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to factors, involving our competitors or us, such as: • new product announcements or changes in product pricing policies; • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technical innovations; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • general conditions in the economy and/or levels of information technology spending. In addition, the market prices of securities issued by many companies, particularly in high-technology industries, are volatile for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. This industry volatility, along with broad market fluctuations, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly sales operating results vary. These operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors. We expect our operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Because of these fluctuations, our operating results for a particular quarter may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock may decline. These fluctuations could cause period-to-period comparisons to be less than meaningful. Numerous factors contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results, including: • fluctuations in quarterly sales patterns; • the timing of customer orders; • changes in our mix of products and distribution channels; • the announcement or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • pricing pressures; • costs related to the acquisition of technologies or businesses; • costs of maintaining, integrating or expanding our operations; • costs of hiring qualified personnel; • technological changes in our market, including changes in standards for protocols, platforms and operating systems applicable to software, hardware and networking environments; • costs associated with outside service providers, such as legal counsel and auditors, and taxes owed by us; • general economic conditions; and • exchange rate fluctuations. Most of our software product revenue comes from current-quarter orders and sales, of which a substantial portion has, at times, occurred in the last month of the quarter. We do not maintain a large backlog of orders and most of our distributors maintain little or no inventory. Order fulfillment cycles are typically short and often as short as one to two days. Accordingly, the timing of customer orders can cause significant variations in quarterly results of operations. Because we sell our products to end-customers through various third parties, such as value-added resellers and independent distributors, we are unable to predict with certainty the actual orders, sales and revenue these third parties will generate in a given quarter. These factors could impair and delay our ability to know when revenue and earnings will be higher or lower than expected. We plan our expenditure levels and product development on our expected revenue. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, we may be unable to adjust our spending in time to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in quarterly revenue. 10 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. Our results of operations may also fluctuate as a result of seasonal factors and this may cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors for a particular quarter. Specifically, due to typical year-end dealer sales patterns and end-user buying patterns, revenue in our first quarter, without taking into account the effect of acquisitions, has historically declined from the fourth quarter of the previous year. We depend on third parties for a key component of our Rightfax product. Our fax products operate on standard computer hardware, most of which is readily available. However, only two domestic suppliers can provide fax processing circuit boards to meet our specifications. Historically, we have relied almost exclusively on Cantata, Inc., for fax boards. We rely on this supplier primarily because of volume price discounts and the cost and effort required to develop software for alternate fax boards. Significant changes in technology, issues regarding quality performance, delays, interruptions or reductions in our supply of fax boards, or unfavorable changes to price and delivery terms could adversely affect our business. We rely heavily on independent distributors, value-added resellers and IT service partners. A substantial majority of our revenue depends on a network of computer-oriented value-added resellers, independent distributors and IT service partners. There is intense competition for the attention of these resellers from our competitors and from providers of other products distributed through these channels. Many of these resellers do not have the financial resources to withstand a downturn in their businesses. We may not be able to maintain or expand our network of resellers in the future. Moreover, our resellers may not maintain or expand their present level of efforts to sell our products. If we lose a major dealer or reseller, or if our dealers and resellers lose interest in selling our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Failure to establish and maintain OEM and strategic relationships could limit our ability to maintain or increase revenue. Creating and maintaining OEM and strategic relationships is important to our success, because these relationships enable us to market and distribute our products to a larger customer base than we could otherwise reach through our direct marketing efforts. We may not be successful in creating new OEM or strategic relationships on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, although we view our OEM and strategic relationships as an important factor in the successful commercialization of our products, our current strategic partners may not view their relationships with us as significant for their own businesses and any one of them could reassess their commitment to us in the future. Further, our OEM and strategic relationships are generally non-exclusive, which means our OEM and strategic partners may develop relationships with some of our competitors. Failure of one or more of our OEM and strategic partners to successfully develop and sustain a market for our products, or the termination of one or more of our OEM and strategic relationships, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase revenue. Additionally, our OEM and strategic partners from time to time require us to customize our products and/or develop further enhancements or capabilities. If we are unable to meet these requests in a timely manner, our relationships with our partners and operating results could be negatively impacted. Our market is highly competitive. The business solutions market is highly competitive and is rapidly changing. We may not have the financial resources, marketing, distribution, service capability and depth of key personnel or technological knowledge to continue to compete successfully in each of our markets. We believe the main competitive factors affecting our business are breadth and quality of software alternatives, product integration capabilities, ability to update our products to respond to technological change, relationships with distributors, strategic partners, value-added resellers and systems integrators, price, size of the installed base, level of customer support and professional services. In the market for LAN-based fax systems, our principal competitors are Esker, Inc. S.A., Biscom, Inc., TOPCALL International AG, Omtool, Ltd., Fenestrae, GFI Software, Ltd. and SAGEM-Interstar. Our fax server products also compete broadly with vendors offering a range of alternative fax solutions, including operating systems containing fax and document transmission features, low-end fax modem products, desktop fax software, single-platform fax software products, outsource fax providers and customized proprietary software solutions. The direct competitors of our business process automation products include K2.net (SourceCode Technology Holdings, Ltd.), Metastorm and Ultimus, Inc. Our main competitors of our document archiving products are Hyland Software, Inc. (OnBase product), EMC Corporation / Documentum (ApplicationXtender, EmailXtender products) and Compulink Business Systems, Inc. (Laserfiche product). 11 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the competitive pressures we face could harm our business and prospects. We expect the competition in our markets to increase over time. There can be no assurance that our current or future competitors will not develop products comparable or superior – in terms of price and performance features – to those developed by us or be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in market opportunities. Increased competition and competitive pressures may result in changes in market share, decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs associated with marketing and sales incentives, resulting in related reductions in revenue, gross margins and operating income, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our financial and business goals. There can be no assurance in the future that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors. Technology and customer demands change rapidly in our industry. In our industry, technology and customer demands change rapidly and our competitors frequently introduce new products and features. To succeed, we must identify, develop and market new products, features and services that achieve broad market acceptance by satisfying those changing customer needs and keeping pace with those technological developments. To do this, we must spend substantial funds on product development. We regularly devote significant resources to technologies that we anticipate will be widely adopted. To be successful, we must, among other things, develop and market products and services that achieve broad market acceptance. We may not be able to develop new products or product enhancements on a timely basis. Even if we do, the market may not accept the new products or product enhancements that we develop and accordingly, the results of our operations may be adversely affected. Our Workflow product runs exclusively on the Microsoft.NET platform. Our Workflow product runs exclusively on the .NET platform. Thus, we are subject to certain risks associated with the use of the .NET platform. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • the .NET platform may not become or continue to be a widely accepted industry standard; • Microsoft may not continue its commitment to enhancing and marketing the .NET platform; • we may not be successful in continuing to develop the Workflow product in connection with the .NET platform; and • changes in the .NET platform may affect our development of the Workflow product, including our ability to timely make necessary updates to the Workflow product for our customers based on changes to the .NET platform. If any of the foregoing occurs, our Workflow product may become obsolete or sales of Workflow may be negatively impacted, which may adversely impact our revenue and operating results. We face risks from our international operations. Maintaining or growing our revenue depends, in part, on our international product sales. We focus significant management attention and financial resources to our international operations. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations to promote our brand internationally and to develop localized systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. Significant portions of our revenue are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which include: • difficulty adapting products to local languages and technologies; • inability to respond to changes in regulatory requirements; • inability to meet special standards requirements; • exposure to exchange rate fluctuations; • restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); • import or export licensing requirements; • limitations on the repatriation of funds; • longer receivables cycles; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • uncertainties arising from local economic or market conditions, local business practices and cultural considerations. 12 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S. Moreover, we could be sued for patent infringement or other intellectual property violations in a foreign country where it could be very costly to defend such a lawsuit. Currently, our U.S. sales and some international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we also may price our international sales to the United Kingdom in British pounds sterling, to Canada in Canadian dollars, to Australia in Australian dollars and to participating European Community countries in Euros. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar against these currencies could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country or region, leading to reduced revenue or profitability in that country or region. As we continue to expand our international operations, we expect our non-U.S.-dollar-denominated sales and our exposure to gains and losses on international currency transactions to increase. We do not currently engage in transactions to hedge against the risk of currency fluctuations, but we may do so in the future. The integration of recent and any future acquisitions may be difficult and disruptive, and we may incur significant costs in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions. We frequently evaluate potential acquisitions of products, technologies and businesses. Any acquisitions we may undertake may direct management’s attention away from the day-to-day operations of our business and may pose numerous other risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we may acquire or retain customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may need to make significant cash payments and dilutive issuances of our equity securities, incur debt, assume unknown liabilities, write-off purchased in-process research and development, amortize expenses related to other intangible assets and incur restructuring charges as well as costs of integrating personnel and operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In connection with our evaluation of, and negotiation with, potential acquisition candidates, we may incur significant costs, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees. These expenses are typically deferred and, upon completion of the transaction, are capitalized as part of the purchase price. However, if the transaction is not completed, we are required to record the deferred expenses as a charge to operating expenses in the quarter in which we conclude the transaction will not be completed. In some cases, particularly when a potential acquisition is abandoned in the late stages of the due diligence and negotiation process, this charge may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the quarter or year in which the charge is recorded. Our average sales prices may decline for some of our products. If the average sales prices of our more significant products decline, our overall gross margins will likely decline. To offset and forestall potential declines in average sales prices, we must continue to develop product enhancements and new products with advanced features that are likely to generate higher-margin incremental revenue. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, or if our products do not achieve significant customer acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Our business may be seriously harmed by third-party litigation against us relating to alleged violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We were named as third-party defendants in two pending lawsuits alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act in connection with the receipt by the plaintiffs of facsimile advertisements that were transmitted by MediaTel Corporation, our wholly owned subsidiary, before its business was sold in September 2003. A detailed description of these cases, including the status of each, is included under “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The complaints sought injunctive relief and unspecified damages and certification as a class action on behalf of the plaintiff and others similarly situated throughout the United States that received the facsimile advertisements. Under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, a court can impose liability of $500 per fax on a party that sends a fax without consent of the recipient and can increase the liability to $1,500 per fax if the sending of the fax is willful. On January 30, 2006, in one of the cases (referred to as Melrose), the court approved a preliminary settlement between the plaintiff class and the defendant. That settlement became final later in 2006. This settlement did not terminate the defendant’s third-party claim against Captaris and MediaTel. Melrose subsequently settled these claims with Captaris and MediaTel and all claims against Captaris and MediaTel were dismissed with prejudice on January 24, 2007, bringing to a close the Melrose litigation. In the other case (referred to as Mediterranean), the defendant, Mediterranean, and third-party defendants Captaris and MediaTel moved for summary judgment against the plaintiff, prior to any class certification. On September 29, 2006, the court in the Mediterranean case granted summary judgment in favor of Mediterranean and Captaris and dismissed the case. In granting summary judgment, the court ruled that the plaintiff, Travel 100, had invited the facsimile advertisements and there was no violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. Travel 100 filed a motion for reconsideration, which the court denied. Travel 100 then filed a notice of appeal on December 29, 2006. Briefing for the appeal has not begun and no date has been set for a hearing at this time. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending the appeal. 13 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. We are vigorously defending the Mediterranean case, but litigation is subject to numerous uncertainties and we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this case. Moreover, even if the plaintiff prevails on the appeal, the plaintiff will still need to certify a class. The amount of any potential liability in connection with the case, will depend, to a large extent, on whether a class is certified, and if one is certified, on what the scope of that class will be, neither of which can be predicted at this time. We have not recorded a liability related to the Mediterranean case. However, there is no guarantee that we will not determine in the future that an accrual is required or that we will not be required to pay damages in respect of the Mediterranean case in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition for the quarter or year in which any accrual is recorded or any damages are paid. We have tendered this claim to our general liability insurance carrier and the carrier has agreed to pay defense costs. However, the carrier has reserved its rights to contest their duty to indemnify Captaris with respect to the matter. Even if coverage is determined to apply, since the potential liability of the claim is substantially in excess of our coverage limits, there can be no assurance that our coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any damages we are required to pay. Regardless of the outcome, the Mediterranean case may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our products may suffer from defect or errors, which could result in loss of revenue, delayed or limited market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Software products as complex as ours may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Commercial release of past versions of our products were delayed until software problems were corrected, and in some cases, we have provided product updates to correct errors in released products. Our new products or releases may not be free from errors after commercial shipments have begun. Any errors that are discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damages to our reputation, increased service and warranty costs or claims against us. Security breach of confidential data may expose us to additional costs and to litigation, which could harm our business. Our products may involve the transmission or storage of business-critical, proprietary or confidential information. If the security measures that we incorporate in our products are breached or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we could be exposed to litigation and possible liability. Even if we were not held liable, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could harm our reputation and even the perception of a security risk could inhibit market acceptance of our products and services. In addition, we may be required to invest additional resources to protect us against damages caused by these actual or perceived disruptions of security breaches in the future. Further, our applications may be vulnerable to unauthorized and illegal access, sabotage, computer viruses and other disruptive problems, including natural disasters. Eliminating computer viruses and addressing other security problems may cause either loss or compromise of data or interruptions, delay or cessation of service to users accessing our business information delivery applications, which could harm our business, expose us to risks of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, nondisclosure and other agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology, but those measures may be insufficient. Our competitors may challenge or circumvent the claims in our patents. Our current patents, or any future patents, may never provide us with any competitive advantages. Other measures that we take to protect our proprietary technology may not prevent or deter misappropriation of our technology or the development of technologies with similar characteristics. Moreover, our use of open systems architecture in the design of our products may make it easier for competitors to misappropriate or replicate our designs and developments. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or be prevented from selling our products. If we are unable to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties, our operating margins may decline as a result. Product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. Historically, competitors in our industry have filed numerous allegations of patent infringement, resulting in considerable litigation. 14 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. We periodically receive letters and other communications from third parties asserting patent rights and requesting royalty payments, among other remedies, and will probably receive additional claims in the future. Some of these claims are unresolved and continue to be outstanding, even after several years of intermittent communications. The ultimate outcome of any of these matters that continue to be outstanding or that may arise in the future cannot be determined, and there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any litigation, regardless of our success, would probably be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Litigation could also force us to: • stop or delay selling or using products that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages for infringement; • obtain licenses, which may be unavailable on acceptable terms; or • redesign products or services that use the infringing technology. We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our business depends on successfully attracting and retaining key personnel in engineering, research and development, marketing, sales, finance and administration. We also depend, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management team. If we fail to recruit such personnel or lose the services of existing key personnel in any functional area, our current operations and new product development efforts could be adversely affected. Competition for skilled personnel is intense. Past reductions in force and any additional reductions in force we undertake may adversely impact employee morale and impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance. 15 Table of Contents CAPTARIS, INC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 