ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements concerning our future programs, products, expenses, revenue, liquidity and cash needs as well as our plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information, except as required by applicable laws and regulations. Numerous factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the results described in these forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors, issues and uncertainties should be carefully considered before deciding to buy, hold or sell our common stock. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents that we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results and financial position to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements and to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Any one of the following risks could harm our operating results or financial condition and could result in a significant decline in the value of an investment in Westaff Inc. Further, additional risks and uncertainties that have not yet been identified or which we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our operating results and financial condition. The recent economic downturn and recession has materially and adversely affected our business and a continuation of current economic conditions could cause further harm to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States economy has been in a recession since December 2007. We expect that the current significant economic downturn and recession in the economy will continue to materially and adversely impact the demand for staffing services and the Company's performance. As economic activity slows, many customers reduce their utilization of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular full-time employees. Further, demand for permanent placement services also slows as the labor pool directly available to our customers' increases, making it easier for them to identify new employees directly. In addition, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased pricing pressures from other staffing companies adversely affecting our revenues and operating margins. These adverse impacts may persist and worsen over the next several quarters if not longer, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The process and uncertainties relating to the proposed Merger could adversely affect our business. We entered into the Merger Agreement with Koosharem Corporation, a California corporation doing business as Select Staffing and Select Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Koosharem, on January 28, 2009. The pendency of the Merger could adversely affect our ability to obtain and retain customers, to recruit temporary employees and to retain our existing employees. Further, the attention of our management will be directed at least in part toward the completion of a transaction and thus diverted in part from day-to-day operations. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by these factors. Completion of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions which are largely or partially outside of our control, including the ability of Koosharem to finalize the financing required in a manner satisfactory to our workers compensation carrier, our ability to avoid declines in our revenues, and our ability to maintain a specified cash and cash equivalent balance immediately prior to closing, all as set forth in the Merger Agreement. A failure to complete the Merger would require us to address immediate issues with our existing lenders and to raise additional capital at a time when our 12 Table of Contents business may have declined substantially and our alternatives are limited. There can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully address issues with our lenders, raise additional capital or address other problems we might face at the time if the Merger is not completed. Accordingly, if the Merger is not completed, we may be immediately unable to, among other things: (1) adequately collateralize our workers' compensation obligations and obtain sufficient workers' compensation coverage to support our operations and (2) satisfy our liquidity requirements and continue our operations as a going concern. Under these circumstances, we may be required to seek alternative transactions and/or consider filing for bankruptcy protection. There can be no assurance that any other alternative transaction similar to the merger would be available to us. Further, whether or not the proposed Merger is completed, we will have incurred substantial costs related to the Merger. While the Merger Agreement is in effect, we are subject to significant restrictions on our business activities and must generally operate our business in the ordinary course (subject to certain exceptions or the consent of Koosharem) as set forth in the Merger Agreement. These restrictions on our business activities could limit our ability to respond to changes in business conditions or other events, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or financial condition. We are currently in default under the primary credit facility that we use to finance our operations. If we are unable to obtain a waiver or continued forbearance with respect to this default, we may be unable to satisfy our liquidity requirements and continue our operations as a going concern. We are currently in default under the Financing Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2008 (the "Financing Agreement"), among Westaff (USA), Inc. (as borrower), the Company (as parent guarantor), U.S. Bank National Association (as agent for the lenders, letter of credit issuer and a lender) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (as a lender). We finance our operations primarily through cash generated by our operating activities and through borrowings under our revolving line of credit under the Financing Agreement. On May 23, 2008, we received a notice of default from U.S. Bank (as agent for itself and Wells Fargo Bank) stating that (1) an Event of Default (as defined in the Financing Agreement) had occurred due to our failure to achieve a minimum required Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Financing Agreement) for our fiscal period ended April 19, 2008; and (2) as a result of the Event of Default, effective May 21, 2008, U.S. Bank increased the rate of interest to the default rate of interest on the borrowings outstanding under our line of credit. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Financing Agreement, but do have $27.3 million of outstanding letters of credit supporting our workers' compensation obligations. While the Company previously entered into a series of forbearance agreements providing for the lenders to forbear from exercising their default rights and remedies under the Financing Agreement through December 19, 2008, the lenders' agreement to forbear have not been extended past December 19, 2008. Accordingly, the Company does not currently have any waiver or continued forbearance in respect of the Event of Default described above, and the lenders may elect at any time to pursue remedies available to them under the Financing Agreement, such as limiting or terminating Westaff (USA), Inc.'s right to borrow under the Financing Agreement or electing not to renew letters of credit issued under the Financing Agreement. The Company is currently in discussions with U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo to seek a waiver or continued forbearance in respect of the Event of Default. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain a waiver or continued forbearance or that such a waiver or continued forbearance would be on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or continued forbearance and the lenders elect to pursue remedies under the Financing Agreement, such as limiting or terminating the Company's right to borrow under the Financing Agreement or electing not to renew letters of credit, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to continue our operations as a going concern. Under these circumstances, and unless the pending merger with Koosharem is completed, we may be required to seek alternative transactions, raise additional capital and/or consider filing for 13 Table of Contents bankruptcy protection. There can be no assurance that any alternative transactions and/or additional capital would be available to us in the current challenging economic environment. On January 28, 2009, the carrier under the Company's existing workers compensation insurance program and the beneficiary of a letter of credit expiring on February 28, 2009 previously issued by U.S. Bank under the Financing Agreement, was notified by U.S. Bank that such letter of credit will not be renewed. While the Company is currently in discussions with U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo to seek and extension of such letter of credit, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain such an extension. In response to our short term forbearance issues, on August 25, 2008, the Company secured a $3.0 million Subordinated Loan facility with its principal stockholder, Delstaff, LLC. This facility may be used by the Company for working capital and general business purposes during the term of the facility. The unpaid principal balance under the Subordinated Loan bears interest at an annual rate of twenty percent (20%). Interest is payable-in-kind and accrues monthly in arrears on the first day of each month as an increase in the principal amount of the Subordinated Loan. A default rate applies on all obligations under the Subordinated Loan Agreement from and after the Maturity Date (August 15, 2009) and also during the existence of an Event of Default (as defined in the Subordinated Loan Agreement) at an annual rate of ten percent (10%) also payable-in-kind over the then-existing applicable interest rate and if principal is not repaid on the Maturity Date, an additional 5% of outstanding principal must be paid along with the default rate interest. The obligations under the Subordinated Loan Agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of the existing and future assets (the "Subordinated Collateral") of the Company. The lien granted to the Subordinated Lender in the Subordinated Collateral is subordinated to the lien in that same collateral granted to U.S. Bank. Borrowings in excess of $1.0 million require the Subordinated Lender approval. The Subordinated Loan may be prepaid without penalty, subject to approval by U.S. Bank and the terms of an Intercreditor Agreement. Under certain circumstances, the Company must prepay all or a portion of any amounts outstanding under the Subordinated Loan Agreement, subject to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement. The outstanding loan balance at November 1, 2008 was $2.2 million, which includes a $0.2 million facility fee that was added to the loan balance upon receipt of the initial advance. Accrued and unpaid interest on this note at November 1, 2008 was $40,000. The Company borrowed an additional $500,000 on the subordinated loan on January 7, 2009 and an additional $500,000 on January 29, 2009. We have significant working capital requirements and are heavily dependent upon our ability to borrow money to meet these working capital requirements. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses relating to employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. Any lack of access to liquid working capital would have an immediate, material, and adverse impact on our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access the funds necessary for our liquidity requirements, especially in light of the recent downturn in the economy and dislocations in the credit and capital markets. We finance our operations primarily through cash generated by our operating activities and through borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. Our primary credit facility is the Financing Agreement with U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo, which provides for a five-year revolving credit facility with an aggregate commitment of up to $33.0 million. In addition, our former Australian subsidiary maintained a $12.0 million Australian dollar facility agreement with GE Capital that was due to expire in May 2009. As of November 1, 2008, our total borrowing capacity was $3.3 million, consisting of $1.5 million for our domestic operations and $1.8 million for our former Australian operations. On 14 Table of Contents September 27, 2008, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Australia and New Zealand subsidiaries and the sale was completed on November 10, 2008. In connection with the agreement, the Australian GE Capital debt was paid in full. The amounts we are entitled to borrow under our revolving credit facilities are calculated daily and are dependent on available cash and eligible trade accounts receivable generated from operations, which are affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, as well as by the daily timing of cash collections and cash outflows. If we experience a significant and sustained drop in operating profits, or if there are unanticipated reductions in cash inflows or increases in cash outlays, we may be subject to cash or availability shortfalls. If such a shortfall were to occur for even a brief period of time, it may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, our receivables may not be adequate to allow for borrowings for other corporate purposes, such as capital expenditures or growth opportunities, and we would be less able to respond to changes in market or industry conditions. We typically experience significant seasonal and other fluctuations in our borrowings and borrowing availability, particularly in the United States, and aggressively manage our cash to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements. Such steps include working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures and reducing operating expenses where feasible. We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities, especially during seasonal peaks in revenue experienced in the third and fourth fiscal quarters of the year and in economic downturns. In addition, we are required to pledge amounts to secure letters of credit that collateralize certain workers' compensation obligations, and these amounts may increase in future periods. Any such increase in pledged amounts or sustained negative cash flows or reductions in accounts receivable would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may be unable to adequately collateralize our workers' compensation obligations at their current levels or at all. We are contractually obligated to collateralize our workers' compensation obligations under our workers' compensation program through irrevocable letters of credit, surety bonds or cash. As of November 1, 2008, our aggregate collateral requirements under these contracts have been secured through $27.3 million of letters of credit obtained through our U.S. Bank facility. Our workers' compensation policy expired November 1, 2008 and it has been extended through April 1, 2009. As part of the extension the Company paid $1.0 million in cash collateral on October 31, 2008 and will pay an additional $250,000 by February 28, 2009. These collateral requirements are significant, place pressure on our liquidity and working capital capacity and are dependent on the Company having sufficient accounts receivable and cash balances. If we are not able to obtain a renewal of our letters of credit at a level sufficient to meet our collateral requirements, we could be unable to obtain sufficient workers' compensation coverage to support our operations. On January 28, 2009, the Company's workers' compensation carrier was notified by the issuing Bank that the letter of credit issued in favor of the carrier and expiring on February 28, 2009 will not be renewed. The Company is currently in discussions with U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo to seek an extension of the letter of credit however there can be no assurances that the Company will receive an extension. The carrier has the right to draw on the letter of credit prior to the expiration. If the carrier draws on the Letter of Credit, the issuing Bank may require the Company to fund the draw in cash which would require the Company to borrow under its credit facility. The Company is currently in default under the terms of its credit facility and in discussions with U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo to seek a waiver or continued forbearance in respect of the event of default. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain a waiver or continued forbearance or that such a waiver or 15 Table of Contents continued forbearance would be on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or continued forbearance and the lenders elect to pursue remedies under the Financing Agreement, such as limiting or terminating the Company's right to borrow under the Financing Agreement or calling the loan, there can be no assurance that the Company could find alternative sources of capital to repay the loan. We are exposed to credit risks on collections from our customers due to, among other things, our assumption of the obligation to make wage, tax, and regulatory payments to our temporary employees. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers. Temporary personnel are typically paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. We generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with our payroll obligations, including liability for payment of salaries and wages, payroll taxes as well as group health insurance. These obligations are fixed and become a liability of ours, whether or not the associated client to whom these employees have been assigned makes payments required by our service agreement, which exposes us to credit risks. We attempt to mitigate these risks by billing on a frequent basis, which typically occurs daily or weekly. In addition, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required and timely payments. Further, we carefully monitor the timeliness of our customers' payments and impose strict credit standards. However, there can be no assurance that such steps will be effective in reducing these risks. Finally, the majority of our accounts receivable is used to secure our revolving credit facilities, which we rely on for liquidity. If we fail to adequately manage our credit risks associated with accounts receivable, our financial position could be adversely impacted. Additionally, to the extent that recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers' ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Price competition in the staffing industry continues to be intense, and pricing pressures from both competitors and customers could adversely impact our financial decisions. We expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, and competitive pricing pressures will continue to make it difficult for us to raise our prices to immediately and fully offset increased costs of doing business, including increased labor costs, costs for workers' compensation and, domestically, state unemployment insurance. If we are not able to effectively compete in our targeted markets, our operating margins and other financial results will be harmed and the price of our securities could decline. We also face the risk that our current or prospective customers may decide to provide services internally. The market for our stock may be limited, and the stock price may continue to be extremely volatile. The average daily trading volume for our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was approximately 21,044 shares during the fiscal year ended November 1, 2008. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations that have been, and may continue to be, exaggerated because an active trading market has not developed for our common stock. We believe that the price of our common stock has also been negatively affected by the fact that our common stock is thinly traded and also due to the absence of analyst coverage. The lack of analyst reports about our stock may make it difficult for potential investors to make decisions about whether to purchase our stock and may make it less likely that investors will purchase the stock, thus further depressing the stock price. These negative factors may make it difficult for stockholders to sell our common stock, which may result in losses for investors. 16 Table of Contents Recently our common shares traded at prices below $1.00. If this continues in the future, our common shares could be subject to delisting by NASDAQ Stock Market. Our common stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. On September 10, 2008 we received a letter from the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days prior to the date of the letter, the bid price of Westaff's common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450 (a)(5) and that we had until March 9, 2009 for the bid price of our common stock to close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days to regain compliance. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K our common stock has not been delisted and continues to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ implemented a temporary suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and a minimum market value of publicly held shares. On December 23, 2008, NASDAQ extended this suspension until April 20, 2009. As a result of the suspension we now remain at the same stage of the compliance process at the time of the suspension. In the event Westaff does not regain compliance, or NASDAQ does not further extend this suspension, NASDAQ will reinstate the compliance process for Westaff's common stock. If our common shares are delisted from the NASDAQ, there may be a limited market for our shares, trading our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease even further. If our common shares are not listed on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ, potential investors may be prohibited from or be less likely to purchase our common shares, limiting the trading market for our stock even further. In February 2009, the Company was notified by NASDAQ that the closing bid price of Westaff's common stock has been at $1.00 per share or greater for at least 10 consecutive business days. Accordingly, the Company has regained compliance with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) and this matter is now closed. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting, we may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and current SEC regulations and proposed rules, we are required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the SEC approved a one-year extension of the compliance date for smaller public companies, therefore, beginning with our Form 10-K for the 2010 fiscal year our external auditors will be required to audit our internal control over financial reporting report and include their attestation on that report. The process of fully documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy these requirements have resulted and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and the diversion of management time and attention from profit-generating activities to compliance activities. Furthermore, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective and our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may also be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. Our principal stockholder, together with its affiliates, controls a significant amount of our outstanding common stock thus allowing them to exert significant influence on our management and affairs. As of November 1, 2008, our principal stockholder, DelStaff LLC ("DelStaff"), together with its affiliates, controls approximately 49.5% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock. The members of DelStaff are H.I.G. Staffing, 2007, Ltd., Alarian Associates, Inc. and Michael T. Willis. As our principal stockholder, DelStaff and its affiliates have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, and to exert significant influence over our management and affairs. On April 30, 2007, we entered into a Governance 17 Table of Contents Agreement with DelStaff, Mr. Willis and Mr. Stover. On May 9, 2007, pursuant to the terms of the Governance Agreement, we expanded the size of our Board of Directors from five to nine directors and appointed the following DelStaff nominees to the Board: Michael T. Willis, John R. Black, Michael R. Phillips, Gerald E. Wedren and John G. Ball. DelStaff also has the ability to strongly influence any merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of our assets or other strategic decisions affecting us or the market value of the stock. This concentration of stock and voting power could be used by DelStaff to delay or prevent an acquisition of Westaff or other strategic action or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our outstanding stock. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from franchise agent operations. Franchise agent operations comprise a significant portion of our revenue. As of November 1, 2008, franchisees represented 40.1% of gross receipts. In addition, our ten largest franchise agents (based on sales volume) accounted for 27.5% of our revenue. There can be no assurances that we will be able to attract new franchisees or that we will be able to retain our existing franchisees. The loss of one or more of our franchise agents and any associated loss of customers and sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our service agreements may be terminated on short notice, leaving us vulnerable to loss of a significant amount of customers in a short period of time. Our service agreements are generally cancellable with little or no notice by the customer to us. As a result, our customers can terminate their agreement with us at any time, making us particularly vulnerable to a significant decrease in revenue within a short period of time that could be difficult to quickly replace. Our reserves for workers' compensation claims may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability, and we may incur additional charges if the actual amounts exceed the reserved amounts. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated liabilities for workers' compensation claims based upon actuarial estimates of the future cost of claims and related expenses which have been reported but not settled, and that have been incurred but not yet reported. The determination of these reserves is based on a number of factors, including current and historical claims activity, medical cost trends and developments in existing claims. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability and are affected by both internal and external events, such as adverse development on existing claims, changes in medical costs, claims handling procedures, administrative costs, inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Reserves are adjusted as necessary to reflect new claims and existing claims development, and such adjustments are reflected in the results of the periods in which the reserves are adjusted. While we believe our judgments and estimates are adequate, if our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses, an adjustment could be charged to expense that may be material to our earnings. Workers' compensation costs for temporary employees may continue to rise and reduce margins and require more liquidity. In the United States, we are responsible for and pay workers' compensation costs for our regular and temporary employees. In recent years, these costs have risen substantially as a result of increased claims, general economic conditions, increases in healthcare costs and governmental regulations. The frequency of new claims has fallen in fiscal 2008 as compared to prior years, yet the cost per claim continues to increase. Under our workers' compensation insurance program, we maintain "per occurrence" insurance, which only covers claims for a particular event above a deductible. This deductible has been increased for our policy year ending November 1, 2008 from $500,000 to $750,000 per claim for fiscal 2008 claims. Our workers' compensation insurance policy expired November 1, 2008 and we have extended the policy through April 1, 2009. We have provided a cash payment of $1 million which was recorded as a short term deposit at November 1, 2008 and we will pay an additional $0.3 million in collateral by February 28, 2009. Should our workers' compensation premium costs 18 Table of Contents continue to increase in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers to keep pace with increased costs or if we were unable to obtain insurance on reasonable terms or forced to significantly increase our deductible per claim, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our success is impacted by our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent candidates. We compete with other staffing services to meet our customers' needs, and we must continuously attract reliable candidates to meet the staffing requirements of our customers. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers. Competition for individuals with proven skills remains intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms to us. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time could materially adversely affect our business. The staffing industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry which could limit our ability to maintain or increase market share. The staffing industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry and continues to undergo consolidation. We compete in regional and local markets with large full service agencies, specialized temporary and permanent placement services agencies and small local companies. While some competitors are smaller than us, they may enjoy an advantage in discrete geographic markets because of a stronger local presence. Other competitors have greater marketing, financial and other resources than us that, among other things, could enable them to attempt to maintain or increase their market share by reducing prices. Furthermore, in past years there has been an increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or with a small number of providers. The trend to consolidate staffing services purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain business. The cost of unemployment insurance for temporary employees may rise and reduce our margins. In the United States, we are responsible for and pay unemployment insurance premiums for our temporary and regular employees. At times, these costs have risen as a result of increased claims, general economic conditions and government regulations. Should these costs continue to increase, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in the future to keep pace with the increased costs, and if we do not, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our information technology systems are critical to the operations of our business. Our information management systems are essential for data exchange and operational communications with branches spread across large geographical distances. We have replaced key component hardware and software including backup systems within the past 12 months. On November 12, 2007, we implemented a new accounts receivable billing and temporary payroll system. The new system receives information from our custom built front office system. We experienced technical issues after conversion that were not detected during the testing phases. These issues affected both the payroll and billing systems. We believe that we have identified and resolved the significant issues. These issues were disruptive to our business and could have affected customer and employee relations. Additionally, these issues required significant amount of management time that impacted our ability to sell new services during the first half of fiscal 2008. We have made progress in resolving these 19 Table of Contents specific payroll and billing systems issues. However, any future interruption, impairment or loss of data integrity or malfunction of these systems could severely impact our business, especially our ability to timely and accurately pay employees and bill customers. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may restrict the types of employment services that we are permitted to offer or result in additional tax or other costs that adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplace of other businesses on either a temporary or permanent basis. As a result, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to employment. Changes in laws or government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services we are permitted to offer or the imposition of new or additional benefit, licensing or tax requirements that could reduce our revenues and earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in laws or government regulations. Any future changes in laws or government regulations may make it more difficult or expensive for us to provide staffing services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect our business. The risks related to engaging in our business include but are not limited to: •claims by our placed personnel of discrimination and harassment directed at them, including claims arising from the actions of our customers; •workers' compensation claims and other similar claims; •violations of wage and hour laws and requirements; •claims of misconduct, including criminal activity or negligence on the part of our placed personnel; •claims by our customers relating to actions by our placed personnel, including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets or other similar claims; and •immigration related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management team, and therefore, could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities or that we will be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not experience these issues in the future or that they could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are involved in an action taken by the California Employment Development Department. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we were notified by the California Employment Development Department ("EDD") that our domestic operating subsidiaries unemployment tax rates would be increased retroactively for both calendar years 2005 and 2004. The total assessment by the EDD of additional unemployment taxes for both years, net of applied overpayments is approximately 20 Table of Contents $1.5 million including interest at applicable statutory rates. Management believes that it has properly calculated its unemployment insurance tax and is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The Company has timely appealed the ruling by the EDD and is working with the outside counsel to resolve this matter. Additionally, management contends that the notification by the EDD of the 2004 assessment was not timely and holds the position that the assessment is procedurally invalid. Consequently, at November 1, 2008, the Company has no reserve for the 2004 assessment and has accrued the assessment for 2005 of $0.3 million, including interest and net of an applied overpayment. Although we believe that we have properly calculated our unemployment insurance tax and are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurances this will be settled in our favor. Management believes the Company is well positioned to defend against the un-accrued portion and the ultimate resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements. We are a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are regularly involved in a variety of litigation arising out of our business and, in recent years, have paid significant amounts as a result of adverse arbitration awards. We do not have insurance for some of these claims, and there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we have will cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements not be covered by insurance or exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to obtain appropriate and sufficient types or levels of insurance in the future or that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have assets on our balance sheet for which their realization is dependent on our future cash flows. As of November 1, 2008, we have intangibles of $3.5 million. During the Company's third quarter of fiscal year 2008 in light of the continued decline in revenue and the continued decline in the market capitalization of the Company, management determined that an interim impairment test was necessary during the third quarter of 2008. Based on the impairment evaluation as of July 12, 2008, it was determined that the indefinite life franchise right intangible was impaired by $0.2 million. Such an impairment charge was measured in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" as the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. After completing the intangible asset impairments, the Company compared the fair value of the US Domestic Business Services reporting unit to its carrying value and determined that the reporting unit was impaired. Upon completion of Step 2 of the impairment test, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment of $11.4 million in relation to its US Domestic Business Services reporting unit. Given the continued decline in revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company again performed an impairment test for its indefinite life franchise right intangibles but determined there was no material impairment as of November 1, 2008. A majority of the remaining intangible asset balance of $3.5 million as of November 1, 2008 relates to an indefinite life franchise right relating to the Houston market. If we are unable to maintain our projected levels of cash flows for this market, we may need to write off a portion or all of these assets which would result in a reduction of our assets and stockholders equity. Furthermore, under SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," the Company is required to assess the recoverability of its long-lived assets (such as its property and equipment) whenever events and circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable from estimated cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. If we are unable to generate adequate cash flows we may need to write off a portion of our long-lived assets. 21 Table of Contents Improper disclosure of employee and customer data could result in liability and harm to our reputation. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about our employees and their customers. It is possible that our security controls over personal data and other practices we and our third party service providers follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 