ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors Affecting Future Operating Results This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s future programs, products, expenses, revenue, liquidity and cash needs as well as the Company’s plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and the Company assumes no obligation to update this information, except as required by applicable laws and regulations. Numerous factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the results described in these forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors. Price competition in the staffing industry continues to be intense and pricing pressures from both competitors and customers may result in reduced sales and margins to the Company. The temporary staffing industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry and continues to undergo consolidation. The Company expects the level of competition to remain high in the future, and competitive pricing pressures will continue to make it difficult for the Company to raise its prices even though its costs may have increased, and may have an adverse effect on the Company’s market share and operating margins. The Company competes in national, regional and local markets with full service agencies and with specialized temporary services agencies. Many competitors are smaller than the Company but may enjoy an advantage over the Company in discrete geographic markets because of their stronger local presence. Other competitors have greater marketing, financial and other resources than the Company that, among other things, could enable them to attempt to maintain or increase their market share by reducing prices. Furthermore, there has been an increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or with a small number of providers. The trend to consolidate staffing services purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for Westaff to obtain or retain business. Any significant recurrent economic downturn could result in the Company’s customers using fewer temporary employees, which could materially adversely affect the Company. Demand for the Company’s staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and unemployment in the United States and the countries in which the Company operates. Frequently, customers use temporary staffing services to manage personnel costs and staffing needs. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. However, as economic activity slows, many customers reduce their utilization of temporary employees before releasing regular full-time employees. Typically, the Company may experience less demand for its services and more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. The recent domestic economic recession and resultant economic uncertainty had a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A recurrent recession or a significant lag in economic recovery would likely have a further material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 11 Unemployment insurance premiums and workers’ compensation costs and collateral for Westaff’s temporary employees may continue to rise and reduce Westaff’s margins and liquidity. Westaff is responsible for and pays unemployment insurance premiums and workers’ compensation costs for its regular and temporary employees. In recent years, these costs have risen as a result of increased claims, general economic conditions and governmental regulations. Should these costs continue to increase in the future, there can be no assurance that Westaff will be able to increase the fees charged to its customers to keep pace with increased costs and if it does not, its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company was notified by the California Employment Development Department (EDD) that its California unemployment tax rates would be increased retroactively for both calendar 2005 and 2004. This rate increase was based on the EDD finding that Westaff’s wholly-owned domestic operating subsidiaries would be considered as a single reporting entity for California unemployment tax reporting purposes. The Company believes that it has properly calculated its unemployment insurance tax and is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The Company has timely appealed the assessment and the rate increase and is working with its outside counsel to resolve this matter. The Company accrued a portion of the increased tax during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. However, the Company believes that it has strong defenses and legal arguments with respect to approximately $0.9 million of the assessment and accordingly has not accrued for that portion of the assessment as of October 29, 2005. Should the Company ultimately prove unsuccessful in its appeal, the Company would be required to record a charge for the unaccrued portion of the assessment and pay for the taxes out of its working capital. Westaff retains a portion of the risk under its workers’ compensation program (see “Business—Risk Management Programs”). The estimated remaining deductible liability for all existing and incurred but not reported claims is accrued based upon actuarial methods using current claims information, as well as prior experience, and may be subsequently revised each quarter based on new developments related to such claims. Changes in the estimates underlying the claims reserve are charged or credited to earnings in the period determined, and therefore large fluctuations in any given quarter could materially adversely affect earnings in that period. The Company is contractually required to collateralize its obligations to its insurance carrier under these workers’ compensation insurance contracts through irrevocable letters of credit, surety bonds or cash. As of December 24, 2005, the Company’s aggregate collateral requirements under these contracts have been satisfied through $35 million of letters of credit; however, under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to increase its letters of credit to $40 million. As noted above, collateral requirements for the Company’s workers’ compensation program are significant and place pressure on the Company’s liquidity and working capital availability. Should the Company be required to provide further collateral in addition to the fiscal 2006 payments, such additional collateral would reduce the Company’s borrowing capacity and its liquidity. Westaff’s success depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel. Westaff depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of its customers. Westaff must continually evaluate and upgrade its base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of the Company’s temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with the Company and accept regular staff employment with customers of the Company. Competition for individuals with proven skills remains intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to Westaff in sufficient numbers 12 and on terms of employment acceptable to the Company. The failure to recruit, train and retain qualified temporary employees could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. Westaff’s information technology systems are critical to its daily operations and the Company initiated a process to replace these systems beginning in fiscal 2005. The Company’s domestic information management systems, located at a co-location facility and corporate headquarters, are critical to daily operations of the Company’s business. While backup and recovery systems are in place, should these key systems fail it could severely impact the Company’s business and operations, specifically its ability to timely and accurately pay employees and bill customers. The Company’s domestic back office payroll and billing systems are at the end of their life cycle and are no longer supported by the companies who originally supplied them. Westaff currently utilizes internal support to maintain and update these systems. This includes the process of applying updates to remain in compliance with tax mandates and other additional regulatory requirements. This potentially creates exposure should an update not occur in a timely fashion, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In fiscal 2005, the Company successfully implemented two phases of its new enterprise-wide information system. These phases included regular staff human resource management/payroll and core financials. In fiscal 2006, the implementation will continue and will include front-office, temporary payroll and billing which will result in the retirement of our existing legacy systems. This project will continue to require significant investments in consulting fees as well as significant internal personnel resources. While the Company anticipates a successful implementation, there can be no assurance that this initiative will yield the intended results. Delays in completing or an inability to successfully complete these technology initiatives could adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and operations. Westaff has significant working capital requirements and is heavily dependent upon its ability to borrow money to meet these working capital requirements. The Company requires significant amounts of working capital to operate its business and to pay expenses relating to employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, the Company must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. The Company finances its operations primarily through borrowings under its revolving credit facilities and also through cash generated by its operating activities. As of December 24, 2005, the Company’s total borrowing availability was $18.2 million, with $9.2 million, $4.4 million and $4.6 million available in the US, UK and Australia, respectively. The amount the Company is entitled to borrow under its US revolving credit facility is calculated each day and is dependent on the trade accounts receivable generated from operations, which are affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, as well as by the daily timing of cash collections and cash outflows. If the Company experiences a significant and sustained drop in operating profits, or if there are unanticipated reductions in cash inflows or increases in cash outlays, the Company may be subject to cash shortfalls. If such a shortfall were to occur, for even a brief period of time, it may have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company’s receivables may not be adequate to allow for borrowings for other corporate purposes, such as capital expenditures or growth opportunities, and the Company would be less able to react to changes in the market or industry conditions. The credit facilities contain covenants which, among other things, require the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The Company has, in the past, failed to comply with certain of these covenants 13 and has been required to obtain a waiver or amendment to the credit agreement from its lenders. Any future failure to comply with the covenants under the Company’s credit facilities could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could trigger prepayment obligations. If the Company were forced to refinance borrowings under the current facilities, there can be no assurance that such financing would be available or that such financing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. Even if such refinancing were available, the terms could be less favorable and the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. The Company typically experiences significant seasonal and other fluctuations in its borrowings and borrowing availability, particularly in the US, and has, in the past, been required to aggressively manage its cash to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible and working to generate cash from a variety of other sources. The Company has historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities, especially during seasonal peaks in revenue experienced in the third and fourth quarters of the year. In addition, the Company is required to pledge amounts to secure letters of credit that collateralize certain workers’ compensation obligations and these amounts may increase in future periods. Any such increase in pledged amounts or sustained negative cash flows would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse affect on the Company’s liquidity and financial condition. Westaff may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect its business. Westaff is in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplace of other businesses. Attendant risks of these activities include: · possible claims by customers of employee misconduct or negligence, · claims by employees of discrimination or harassment (including claims relating to actions of Westaff’s customers), · fines and costs related to the inadvertent employment of illegal aliens, · payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims, · violations of wage and hour requirements, · errors and omissions of temporary employees, and · claims by customers relating to employees’ misuse of customer proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts or similar claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to the Company’s management team as well as costly and therefore could have a negative effect on its business. In some instances, Westaff has agreed to indemnify its customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. Westaff has policies and guidelines in place to help reduce its exposure to these risks and has purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that it believes to be adequate. However, there can be no assurance that Westaff’s insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of risks in the future. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that Westaff will not experience these problems in the future or that Westaff will not incur fines or other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems that could have a material adverse effect on Westaff’s business. 14 Westaff’s Founder and Chairman controls a significant amount of the Company’s outstanding stock thus allowing him to exert significant influence on the Company’s management and affairs. The Company’s Chairman and Founder, W. Robert Stover, beneficially owns directly or indirectly, or has voting power over, a significant amount of the Company’s outstanding stock. As the principal stockholder of the Company, Mr. Stover has the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and to exert significant influence on the Company’s management and affairs. For example, Mr. Stover has the ability to sell his shares independently, and to control the election of the Board of Directors and the appointment of executive management. He also has the ability to control any merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of the Company’s assets or other strategic decisions affecting the Company or the market value of the stock. This concentration of stock and voting power could be used by Mr. Stover to delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company or other strategic action or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of the outstanding stock. The market for Westaff’s stock may be limited and the stock price may continue to be extremely volatile. The average daily trading volume for Westaff’s common stock on the Nasdaq National Market was approximately 39,700 shares from January 1, 2005, through December 31, 2005, and there have been numerous days with virtually no trading in the stock. Accordingly, the market price of Westaff’s common stock is subject to significant fluctuations that have been, and may continue to be, exaggerated because an active trading market has not developed for the stock. The Company believes that the common stock price has also been negatively affected by the fact that the Company’s stock is thinly traded and the absence of analyst coverage. The lack of analyst reports about the Company’s stock may make it difficult for potential investors to make decisions about whether to purchase the Company’s stock and may make it less likely that investors will purchase the stock, thus further depressing the stock price. These negative factors may make it difficult for stockholders to sell the Company’s common stock, which may result in losses for investors. Westaff’s business may suffer if it loses its key personnel. Westaff’s operations are dependent on the continued efforts of its executive officers and senior management. Additionally, Westaff is dependent on the performance and productivity of its local managers and field personnel. Westaff’s ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of those key executive officers and senior management who have acquired experience in operating a staffing service company may cause a significant disruption to Westaff’s business. Moreover, the loss of Westaff’s key local managers and field personnel may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that continue to use Westaff’s staffing services based upon past direct relationships with these local managers and field personnel. Either of these types of losses could adversely affect Westaff’s operations, including Westaff’s ability to establish and maintain customer relationships. Westaff derives a significant portion of its revenue from franchise agent operations. Franchise agent operations comprise a significant portion of the Company’s revenue. For fiscal 2005, 28.1% of the Company’s total revenue was derived from franchise agent operations. In addition, the Company’s ten largest franchise agents for fiscal 2005 (based on sales volume) accounted for 17.2% of the Company’s revenue. The loss of one or more of the Company’s franchise agents and any associated loss of customers and sales, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 15 Westaff is subject to business risks associated with international operations and fluctuating exchange rates. The Company presently has operations in the United Kingdom (UK), Australia and New Zealand, which comprised 23.2% of the Company’s revenue during fiscal 2005. Operations in foreign markets are inherently subject to certain risks, including, in particular, different cultures and business practices, overlapping or differing tax structures, economic and political uncertainties, compliance issues associated with accounting and reporting requirements and changing, complex or ambiguous foreign laws and regulations, particularly as they relate to employment. All of the Company’s sales outside of the United States are denominated in local currencies and, accordingly, the Company is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates which could cause a reduction in the Company’s profits. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Westaff is a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Westaff is regularly involved in a variety of litigation arising out of its business and, in recent years, has paid significant amounts as a result of adverse arbitration awards. The Company does not have insurance for some of these claims and there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage it has will cover all claims that may be asserted against the Company. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements not be covered by insurance or exceed its insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. There can also be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain appropriate and sufficient types or levels of insurance in the future or that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The Company is subject to the risk of new regulations which could harm the Company’s business. The Company is subject to bills introduced in Congress and various state legislatures, as well as in the foreign countries in which it operates, which, if enacted, could impose conditions that could have a negative financial impact on the Company. Such conditions could include new or additional benefits, taxes or other requirements that may increase the Company’s costs of operations and reduce future earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 