ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. A variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, can cause these fluctuations, including, among others: • the size, timing and shipment of individual orders for our products; • changes in our operating expenses; • the timing of personnel departures and new hires and the rate at which new personnel become productive; • the timing of the introduction or enhancement of our products and our competitors’ products; • customers deferring their orders in anticipation of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • market acceptance of new products; • changes in the mix of products sold; • changes in product pricing, including changes in our competitors’ pricing policies; • development and performance of our direct and indirect distribution channels and changes in the mix of vertical markets to which we sell our products; • the amount and timing of charges relating to restructurings and the impairment or loss of value of some of our assets, especially goodwill and intangible assets; and • general economic conditions. We may not be able to achieve, sustain or grow our profitability from quarter to quarter. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed, a small variation in when revenue is recognized can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our business has historically tended to be seasonal, with the last quarter of the year having the highest amount of revenue and the first quarter of the year having the lowest amount of revenue. Our failure to successfully integrate Cyota into our business and operations could hurt our business. The integration of the business and operations of Cyota, Inc., which we acquired in December 2005, into our business and operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Before any acquisition, each company has its own business, culture, customers, employees and systems. After the acquisition, we must ensure that the companies operate as a combined organization using common communications systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. In order to successfully integrate Cyota, we must, among other things, successfully: • retain key Cyota personnel; • integrate, both from an engineering and a sales and marketing perspective, Cyota’s products and services into our suite of product and service offerings; 9 Table of Contents • coordinate research and development efforts; • train and integrate our sales forces; • integrate our business processes and systems; and • eliminate redundant costs and consolidate redundant facilities. To remain competitive we may need to acquire other companies or purchase or license technology from third parties in order to introduce new products and services or enhance our existing products and services. We may not be able to find businesses that have the technology we need and, if we find such businesses, may not be able to purchase or license the technology on commercially favorable terms or at all. Once we have completed an acquisition or technology license, the acquired business or our relationship with the licensor may not be successful. In addition, acquisitions and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees and the need for regulatory approvals. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by selling our stock or borrowing money. We may not be able to find financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing stockholders. Some of our products have long and unpredictable sales cycles, which may impact our quarterly operating results. Transactions for some of our products, especially our Web access management products, often involve large expenditures by our customers. The sales cycles for these transactions can be long and unpredictable due to a number of uncertainties such as: • customers’ willingness to invest potentially substantial resources and modify their network infrastructures to take advantage of our products; • customers’ budgetary constraints; • the need to educate potential customers about our products’ capabilities; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; • delays caused by customers’ internal review processes; and • for sales to government customers, governmental regulatory, approval and purchasing requirements. During times when the global economy experiences weakness or uncertainty, we may have difficulty selling our products and services. The global economy, especially the technology sector, can be volatile, and an economic slowdown can have serious negative consequences for our business and operating results. For example, during a period of economic weakness or uncertainty, current or potential customers may defer purchases, go out of business or have insufficient capital to buy or pay for our products and services. During the last several years, we have observed that many companies have reduced their budgets for information technology products and services, which may reduce or eliminate some potential sales of our products and services. In addition, if our resellers and distributors experience financial difficulties due to an uncertain economy, then we may have difficulty selling to and collecting money from those resellers and distributors. If we fail to remain competitive, then we could lose market share for our established products or fail to gain market share for our less mature products and services. We have seen increased competition in our market in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. A number of competitive factors could cause us to lose potential sales or to sell our products and services at lower prices or at reduced margins, including, among others: • Some of our competitors offer e-security products with features and functionality that our products do not currently offer or at lower prices than we offer. In addition, our customers and potential customers may perceive some of our competitors’ products and services as being more convenient and easier to use than ours. • Some computer and software companies that have not traditionally offered e-security products are now offering free or low-cost e-security products and functionality bundled with their own computer and software products. • Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do, allowing 10 Table of Contents them to leverage an installed customer base and distribution network, adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. • Our industry is undergoing consolidation, with larger firms acquiring some of our competitors. A larger firm that acquires a competitor may be a greater threat to us than the original, smaller competitor was for the reasons described in the immediately preceding bullet point. • Our issued U.S. patents expire at various dates ranging from 2006 to 2023. When each of our patents expires, competitors may develop and sell products based on the same or similar technologies as those covered by the expired patent. • The expiration of some of our patents has also permitted the use and distribution of “freeware,” free versions of some of our technology, and we believe that some potential customers may be choosing to use freeware instead of buying our products. • Many companies have reduced their information technology budgets due to the current economic conditions, which could make competition more intense because we are competing for fewer customer dollars. We depend heavily on key, talented employees in a competitive labor market. Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled personnel, especially in the areas of management, sales and engineering. We compete with other companies for a small pool of highly qualified employees. Although we believe that our compensation plans are competitive, we may not be able to hire and retain the employees we need. Our stock price has been volatile and is likely to remain volatile. From January 1, 2005 through February 28, 2006, our stock price has ranged from a per share high of $20.39 to a low of $9.99. A number of factors may contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including: • our ability to meet the expectations of brokerage firms, industry analysts and investors with respect to our operating and financial results; • our public announcements and our competitors’ public announcements; • the public’s perception of the strength of the e-security solutions market and technology companies generally; • litigation developments; • the volatility of the stock market in general and of the technology sector in particular; and • general economic conditions. If the market for e-security solutions does not continue to grow, then demand for our products and services may decrease. The market for some of our e-security solutions is continuing to develop, and demand for our products and services depends on, among other things: • the perceived ability of our products and services to address real customer problems; • the perceived quality, price, ease-of-use and interoperability of our products and services as compared to those of our competitors; • the market’s perception of how easy or difficult it is to deploy our products, especially in complex, heterogeneous network environments; • the continued evolution of electronic commerce as a viable means of conducting business; • market acceptance and use of new technologies and standards; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the public’s perception of the need for secure electronic commerce and communications over both wired and wireless computer 11 Table of Contents networks; • the U.S. government’s continued focus on e-security as a means to counteract terrorism and other hostile acts; • the pace of technological change and our ability to keep up with these changes; • the market’s perception of our products’ ability to address the e-security aspects of various laws; and • general economic conditions, which, among other things, influence how much money our customers and potential customers are willing to allocate to their information technology budgets. Unless we keep up with the ongoing changes in e-security technology and standards, our products and services could become obsolete. Our success depends in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new, competitively priced products and solutions with features that meet changing market requirements, all in a timely and cost-effective manner. A number of factors, including the following, could have a negative impact on the success of our products and services: • quality, reliability or security failures, which could result in product returns, delays in collecting accounts receivable, unexpected service or warranty expenses, reduced orders and a decline in our competitive position; • delays or difficulties in the development of our products and services; • our competitors’ introduction of new products or services ahead of our new products or services, or their introduction of superior or cheaper products or services; • the availability of free, unpatented implementations of encryption algorithms and security protocols; • the market’s failure to accept new technologies, including consumer authentication, connected authentication devices, smart cards, enterprise strong authentication, Web access management and digital certificates; • our failure to include features in our products, or obtain industry and governmental certifications, that our customers or U.S. or foreign government regulators may require; • our failure to anticipate changes in customers’ requirements; and • the implementation of industry or government standards that are inconsistent with the technology embodied in our products and services. If any of our products are found to have, or suspected to have, security vulnerabilities, then we could incur significant costs and damage to our reputation. If any of our products are found to have significant security vulnerabilities, then we may need to dedicate engineering and other resources to eliminate the vulnerabilities and to repair or replace products already sold or licensed to our customers. In addition, our customers and potential customers could perceive our products as unreliable, making it more difficult for us to sell our products. If we fail to obtain a sufficient supply of high-quality RSA SecurID authenticators or components, then we may be unable to fill customer orders or may need to replace defective authenticators shipped to our customers. Problems with the availability or quality of our products could cause our revenue to decrease and our costs to increase, damage our reputation in the marketplace and subject us to damage claims from our customers. Examples of quality and possible availability problems include: • In 2002 and 2003, our quarterly analysis of historical failure and defective return rates indicated that certain RSA SecurID authenticators produced between 2000 and 2002 were subject to higher defect and failure rates. • Many of our suppliers are located outside of the United States. If political, economic, health-related or natural events, such as the U.S. actions in Iraq or the 2004 earthquake and tsunami disasters in Asia, were to affect international trade, then we could experience difficulties in obtaining product components from our international suppliers. • We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of our product components. If our existing suppliers were unable to provide us with a sufficient supply of quality components, then we would have to expend significant resources to find new 12 Table of Contents suppliers, and it is possible that we would be unable to find new suppliers in a timely manner. International sales make up a significant portion of our business. International sales accounted for more than 40% of our total revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • foreign regulatory requirements and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • legal uncertainty regarding liability and the costs of resolving or litigating a dispute internationally; • difficulties in the enforcement of intellectual property rights; • export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; • difficulties and delays in establishing international distribution channels; • the need to tailor or “localize” our products in order to compete in particular international markets and to comply with foreign laws; • difficulties in collecting international accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • tariffs and other trade barriers; and • political instability. If we fail to protect our rights in our proprietary technology, competitors may use our technology, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue and increase our costs. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, software licenses, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology. However, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may nonetheless succeed at: • copying aspects of our products; • obtaining and using information that we regard as proprietary; or • infringing upon our patents and other proprietary rights. We rely on patents to protect our proprietary rights in our technology, but patents may not provide complete protection: • It is possible that any patent that we or our licensors hold might be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or terminated. • It is possible that patent examiners might reject the claims described in our pending or future patent applications. • The laws of some countries in which our products are now, or may in the future be, developed or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. • All patents expire after a period of years. When each of our patents expires, other companies may develop and sell products based on our previously patented technology. • During the life of a patent, third parties may design and sell “work-around” solutions that accomplish the goals of our patented inventions but do not infringe the patents themselves. Our industry is highly litigious. From time to time, we have been involved in disputes with third parties who allege that our products may infringe intellectual property rights held by the third parties. For example, in April 2005, Prism Technologies LLC filed 13 Table of Contents a lawsuit against us and several other companies claiming that some of our products infringe Prism’s patent (see Part I, Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) of this report for more details). Any litigation carries a number of significant risks, including: • litigation is often very expensive, even if it is resolved in our favor; and • litigation diverts the attention of management and other resources. Moreover, if a court or other government agency rules against us in any intellectual property litigation, we might be required to: • discontinue the use of certain processes; • cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • obtain licenses to the infringing technology; or • pay significant monetary damages. Our excess facilities are costly. We currently lease a number of excess, unused or under-used facilities, and our lease commitments for some of these facilities will not expire for several years. Although we have entered into sublessees for most of these facilities, if any of our sublessees were to fail to pay their portion of the rent to our landlords due to financial difficulties or for any other reason, then we would be responsible for paying the full rental amount. We must establish and maintain strategic relationships. We need to create relationships with third parties, including some of our competitors, to ensure that our products will interoperate with the third parties’ products. If our products do not work with third-party products used by our customers and potential customers, then our products could lose or fail to achieve market acceptance. We may not be able to find appropriate strategic partners or may not be able to enter into relationships on commercially favorable terms. Furthermore, the relationships we do enter into may not be successful. Because our strategic relationships are generally non-exclusive, our strategic partners may decide to pursue alternative technologies or to develop alternative products in addition to or instead of our products, either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors. Security technologies are under constant attack. The strength of our cryptographic and other e-security technologies is constantly being tested by computer professionals, academics and “hackers.” Any significant advance in the techniques for attacking e-security solutions could make some or all of our products obsolete or unmarketable. From time to time, we have learned of attempts by third parties to reverse engineer our products to find vulnerabilities. If a third party successfully “hacks” any of our products and makes its findings public, then we may need to dedicate engineering and other resources to eliminate the published vulnerabilities. For example, if a third party were to hack our RSA SecurID solution, then some of our customers could require that we replace some or all of their RSA SecurID authenticators with authenticators that are more secure. If we are required to make these replacements or if we cannot address the vulnerabilities in our products in a timely fashion, then our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, our customers and potential customers could perceive our products as unreliable, making it more difficult for us to sell our products. We may incur significant expenses and damages because of liability claims. An actual or perceived breach of network or data security at our facilities or at a customer’s facilities could result in a product liability claim against us. A substantial product liability claim against us could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, any actual or perceived breach of network or data security, whether or not caused by the failure of one of our products, could hurt our reputation and cause potential customers to turn to our competitors’ products. Our stockholder rights plan and some provisions of our charter may inhibit potential acquisition bids. We have a classified board of directors and have also adopted a stockholders rights plan, both of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to complete a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. While these provisions are intended to enable our board to maximize stockholder value, they may have the effect of discouraging takeovers that could be in the best interest of certain stockholders and may therefore have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could 14 Table of Contents delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock and preventing changes in our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 