ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Results and Market Price of Stock This annual report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” concerning our business, operations and financial performance and condition. When we use the words “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “plans,” “intends,” “believes” and variations of such words or similar expressions, we intend to identify forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking statements on our current assumptions and expectations about future events. We have expressed our assumptions and expectations in good faith, and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them. However, we cannot assure you that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be accurate. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements are set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. These risks, uncertainties and other important factors include, among others: • loss of key suppliers, significant customers or key management personnel; • increased competition, including the possible impact of any mergers, alliances or combinations of competitors; • increases in the cost and/or decreases in the availability of aircraft fuel and diesel fuel and our ability to recapture increases in the cost of aircraft fuel and diesel fuel through the use of fuel surcharges and/or price increases; 13 Table of Contents • with respect to our scheduled freight network, the continuing high cost of aircraft and diesel fuel leading to a higher total price for our services which impacts the freight purchasing decision for our customers and/or shippers resulting in a shift to less expensive modes of transportation; • with respect to our recent expansion of our ground freight transportation network to include scheduled LTL deferred freight transportation services, potential competitive reactions from other LTL carriers; • limitations upon financial and operating flexibility due to the terms of our Credit Facility; • changes in our capital resources and liquidity; • financial costs and operating limitations imposed by both the current and the potential additional future unionization of our workforce; • payment defaults by our customers; • write-downs of the value of our aircraft parts, airframes or aircraft engines; • changes in the cost of Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft maintenance outside the scope of our power-by-the-hour maintenance agreement and/or changes in the cost of Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft maintenance; • changes in general economic conditions; • changes in the cost and availability of ground handling and storage services; • changes in the cost and availability of aircraft or replacement parts; • changes in our business strategy or development plans; • changes in government regulation and policies, including regulations affecting maintenance requirements for, and availability of, aircraft and airworthiness directives; • foreign political instability and acts of war or terrorism; • adverse litigation judgments or awards; • the ability to successfully integrate and operate our LTL ground network; • the ability to attract sufficient customers and freight volumes for our LTL ground network; • findings of environmental contamination; • limitations in our ability to find, acquire and integrate replacement aircraft for our Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft under terms and conditions that are satisfactory to us; and • limitations in our ability to offset income with our future deductible tax attributes. Other factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and, except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of their business or payment defaults by one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While we have over 550 active freight forwarder and logistics company customers, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, our top 25 customers accounted for more than 65.0% of our scheduled freight revenue and our top five customers accounted for more than 30.0% of our scheduled freight 14 Table of Contents revenue. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, our top three customers, Pilot Air Freight, Inc., Eagle Global Logistics, Inc. and AIT Freight Systems, Inc., accounted for 11.2%, 8.5% and 5.5% of our total scheduled freight revenue, respectively. We do not have any material minimum shipping contracts with our customers, including our most significant customers. The loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant reduction in any of these customer’s use of our services, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had a significant concentration of credit risk because approximately 55.0% of our outstanding accounts receivable were from ten customers and 13.0% of our outstanding accounts receivable were attributable to one customer, Pilot Air Freight, Inc. A payment default by one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to schedule the Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft in our operations to achieve sufficient utilization could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the course of 2005, we took delivery of seven leased Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft. We have deployed our Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft in situations in which we can take advantage of their lower operating costs and improved performance characteristics and in situations for which their capacity is better suited than our Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft. In addition, we have developed fleet operating and utilization schedules that largely offset the higher lease and insurance costs of the Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft by achieving a higher average utilization per aircraft as compared to the Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft. If we are unable to achieve sufficient utilization of our Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft, we may not be able to offset its higher lease and insurance costs with its lower operating costs. Further, because the operating leases for the Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft contain restrictions on our ability to sublease the aircraft and prohibit us from terminating the leases prior to the expiration of the initial ten-year term, we may not be able to sublease these aircraft or terminate the leases if we are unable to generate sufficient utilization. Our inability to achieve sufficient utilization of the Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to execute upon our plans to expand our LTL ground freight network, or to manage or generate sufficient revenues from that new line of business, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Beginning October 31, 2005, we expanded our ground freight transportation network to include scheduled airport-to-airport, LTL deferred freight service. As of March 9, 2006, we provided deferred freight services to 46 cities. Our LTL ground freight network is a scheduled airport-to-airport deferred trucking network currently operated by Kitty Hawk Cargo through the use of contracted dedicated trucks and trailers from truck load trucking carriers who provide the trucks, trailers, drivers, insurance, diesel fuel and permits. Our growth plans for the LTL ground freight network will place significant demands on our management and operating personnel. If we are unable to manage the implementation and growth of our LTL ground freight network effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, our business and future operating results will depend on the ability of our management and operating personnel to implement and expand our LTL ground freight network. The as-needed nature of our scheduled freight business and the types of industries we serve subjects our business to significant market fluctuations that are beyond our control and a downward market fluctuation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our scheduled freight network relies on customers who need expedited or time-definite delivery on an as-needed basis for air freight and deferred delivery on an as-needed basis for ground freight. As the freight is shipped on an as-needed basis, we do not have contracts with our customers. Without customer contracts, the overall demand for our freight services is primarily influenced by the health of the 15 Table of Contents U.S. economy, which is cyclical in nature, the seasonality and economic health of the industries generating the freight we transport in our network and the availability, reliability and cost of alternative freight services including services from competitors who are larger than us, serve more cities than we do and have more financial resources than we do. The amount of freight shipped in our scheduled freight network during any particular time period can fluctuate significantly due to the foregoing factors. A downward fluctuation in demand for our scheduled freight services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The U.S. freight transportation industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete, our results of operations and profitability may be materially adversely affected. The U.S. freight transportation industry is extremely large and encompasses a broad range of transportation modes and service levels. Freight is shipped on either an expedited or deferred basis. Expedited freight transit times vary from a few hours to overnight to second morning. In contrast, deferred freight includes freight transit times of up to five days. Both expedited and deferred freight includes freight of varying sizes and weights, from small envelopes to heavy weight or oversized freight requiring dedicated aircraft or trucks. Our scheduled air network generally competes in the inter-city, heavy weight and oversized, next-morning and second-day expedited freight segment of the U.S. freight transportation industry. Our scheduled LTL ground network generally competes in the heavy weight and oversized deferred freight segment of the U.S. freight transportation industry. These segments are highly competitive and very fragmented. The ability to compete effectively depends on price, frequency of service, cargo capacity, ability to track freight, extent of geographic coverage and reliability. We generally compete with regional delivery firms, commercial passenger airlines that provide freight service on their scheduled flights, trucking companies for deliveries of less than 1,000 mile distances, regional and national LTL trucking companies and integrated freight transportation companies, such as BAX Global, FedEx and United Parcel Service. Many of our competitors have substantially larger freight networks, serve significantly more cities and have considerably more freight system capacity, capital and financial resources than we do. Our ability to attract and retain business also is affected by whether, and to what extent, our customers decide to coordinate their own transportation needs. Certain of our current customers maintain transportation departments that could be expanded to manage freight transportation in-house. If we cannot successfully compete against companies providing services similar to, or that are substitutes for, our own or if our customers begin to provide for themselves the services we currently provide to them, our business, financial condition, operating results and profitability may be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of the freight transported in our network relates to the automotive, electronics, telecom and related infrastructure equipment, apparel and other durable goods and equipment industries. The demand for the products produced by these industries and, in turn, the demand for our scheduled freight services for the transportation of freight from these industries has historically trended in relationship to the strength of the U.S. economy. Furthermore, these industries tend to be seasonal in nature and, as a result, our business is also seasonal with the third and fourth quarters historically being the highest demand and strongest revenue quarters. The announcements in November 2005 by General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. that each of them expects to close multiple plants may have an impact on the amount of freight transported generally in the automotive industry. A significant decrease in freight transportation in the automotive industry could significantly reduce the demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our inability to attract sufficient business from customers at economical prices for our expanded ground freight network could impair our ability to compete in the LTL ground freight market and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. The profitability of our LTL ground freight network depends on our ability to carry sufficient freight to cover our contracted trucking costs, working capital needs associated with operating and expanding our ground freight network and certain recurring fixed costs. If we are unable to attract sufficient business from customers willing to pay high enough rates to cover our costs, our results of operations and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our failure to comply with the financial ratios and other covenants in our Credit Facility could result in an event of default that could cause acceleration of the repayment of our indebtedness. The terms of our credit facility with Wells Fargo Business Credit, Inc., or the Credit Facility, require us to achieve and maintain certain specified financial ratios. Our failure to comply with the financial ratios and other covenants and requirements contained in the Credit Facility could cause an event of default. The occurrence of an event of default could prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings and permit Wells Fargo Business Credit to declare the amount outstanding under the Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable. In addition, pursuant to our lockbox arrangement with Wells Fargo Business Credit, upon an event of default, Wells Fargo Business Credit could apply all of the payments on our accounts receivable to repay the amount outstanding under the Credit Facility. In that event, we would not have access to the cash flow generated by our accounts receivable until the amount outstanding under the Credit Facility is first repaid in full. As of December 31, 2005, we had $1.9 million borrowed under the Credit Facility. In the event of an event of default, our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay fully our borrowings under our Credit Facility, and we may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on the Credit Facility on favorable terms or at all. An event of default under our Credit Facility, particularly if followed by an acceleration of any outstanding amount, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The terms of our Credit Facility could restrict our operations. Our Credit Facility contains covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, make capital expenditures, enter into aircraft operating leases, modify our corporate governance documents, incur certain additional debt, declare or pay certain dividends, enter into transactions with our affiliates, consolidate, merge with or acquire another business, sell certain of our assets or liquidate, dissolve or wind-up our company. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in activities which could improve our business, including obtaining future financing, making needed capital expenditures, or taking advantage of business opportunities such as strategic acquisitions and dispositions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Writedowns of the value of our aircraft parts and supplies inventory could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. When we emerged from bankruptcy in September 2002, we had a substantial amount of Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory. The amount of aircraft parts and supplies inventory necessary to operate our Boeing 727-200 fleet is dependent upon the number of Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft that we operate. To the extent we reduce the number of Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft that we operate in the future either through attrition or replacement with other aircraft types including the Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft, we may need fewer Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory to maintain our Boeing 727-200 fleet. If we conclude we have aircraft parts and supplies inventory in excess of our current or anticipated future needs and if we determine that the fair market value of our Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory has declined from our current carrying value, we would have to writedown the value of our Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory. We review this inventory periodically and value it at least annually. In conjunction with a review of our aircraft fleet composition plan and a limited review of our Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft parts and supplies at the end of 2004, we determined that we had certain aircraft parts and supplies with a book value of approximately $1.3 million that were 17 Table of Contents surplus and that the realizable sales value of these surplus aircraft parts and supplies was approximately $0.7 million. As such, we established a valuation reserve of $0.6 million against these identified surplus aircraft parts and supplies as of December 31, 2004. As our fleet composition changed during 2005, we identified additional surplus inventory parts and supplies and increased the valuation reserve by $1.1 million as of December 31, 2005. Any such further writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. As of December 31, 2005, we estimated that the recorded cost of a portion of our active inventory and aircraft supplies exceeded fair market value and wrote down these items by $1.3 million to reduce the carrying value to fair market value. If we lose access to, or sustain damage to, our Fort Wayne, Indiana facilities, our business would be interrupted, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our Fort Wayne, Indiana facilities act as the hub of our expedited scheduled air freight network. As a result, virtually all of the air freight we transport passes through our Fort Wayne facilities on the way to its final destination. If we are unable to access our Fort Wayne facilities because of security concerns, a natural disaster, a condemnation or otherwise or if these facilities are destroyed or materially damaged, our business would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, any damage to our Fort Wayne facilities could damage some or all of the freight in the facilities. If freight is damaged, we may be liable to our customers for such damage and we may lose sales and customers as a result. Any material damages we must pay to customers, or material loss of sales or customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have a $10 million business interruption insurance policy to both offset the cost of, and compensate us for, certain events which interrupt our operations. However, the coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for all potential losses and the conditions to the coverage may preclude us from obtaining reimbursement for some potential losses. While we have attempted to select our level of coverage based upon the most likely potential disasters and events that could interrupt our business, we may not have been able to foresee all the costs and implications of a disaster or other event and, therefore, the coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for our losses. Any material losses for which we are unable to obtain reimbursement may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in the cost, or a reduction in the availability, of airframe or aircraft engine maintenance may result in increased costs. To keep our owned and leased aircraft in airworthy condition, we must hire third parties to perform scheduled heavy airframe and aircraft engine maintenance on them. An increase in the cost of airframe or aircraft engine maintenance would increase our maintenance expenses. In addition, a reduction in the availability of airframe or aircraft engine maintenance services could result in delays in getting airframes or aircraft engines serviced and result in increased maintenance expenses and lost revenue. Any increase in maintenance expenses or loss of revenue due to delays in obtaining maintenance services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in the cost, or decreases in the supply, of aircraft and diesel fuel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. One of our most significant and variable costs is aircraft fuel. During 2005, our aircraft fuel averaged $1.86 per gallon, an increase of 36.8%, as compared to $1.36 per gallon for 2004. Aircraft fuel costs per gallon include the cost of aircraft fuel and all taxes, fees and surcharges necessary to deliver the aircraft fuel into the aircraft. During 2005, we used between 2.1 million and 2.8 million gallons of aircraft fuel per month, depending on the mix of aircraft flown, the weight, origin and destination of freight shipped and the number of days the network operated during each month. During 2005, each $0.01 change in the price per gallon of aircraft fuel resulted in a change in our annual fuel cost of approximately $290,000. We purchase aircraft fuel from various suppliers at current market prices. We do not currently have any long-term contracts for aircraft fuel, nor do we currently have any agreements to hedge against 18 Table of Contents increases in the price of aircraft fuel. On a regular basis, we review the price and availability of aircraft fuel. If we have the opportunity and ability to execute individual purchases at favorable prices or terms, enter into long-term supply contracts for aircraft fuel or make arrangements to hedge against changes in aircraft fuel prices, we may enter into such agreements or arrangements. With respect to our LTL ground freight network, the truck load carriers from whom we contract our trucks pass the increased cost of diesel fuel to us through the use of fuel surcharges. We periodically increase our prices or implement fuel surcharges to offset all or some of our increased fuel costs, as our scheduled freight network bears the cost of increases in aircraft and diesel fuel prices. If we are unable due to competitive pressures or other reasons to raise our fuel surcharges or prices, we may be forced to absorb increases in aircraft and/or diesel fuel costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as we attempt to recapture the increase in aircraft and/or diesel fuel costs through increasing our prices to our customers and/or through temporary fuel surcharges, our customers may seek lower cost freight transportation alternatives to our scheduled freight network, which could negatively affect our results of operation. The rising cost of aircraft fuel affects our working capital because we pay for fuel in advance of providing air freight transportation services and typically do not recover these increases through our fuel surcharge until the billing for the air freight transportation service is collected, which is usually between 30 to 45 days after the service is performed. Additionally, if we were unable to acquire sufficient quantities of aircraft fuel at a price we deem appropriate to fly our aircraft, we would be required to curtail our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Increases in the cost, or decreases in the supply, of ground handling and storage services could significantly disrupt our business. We contract with third parties to provide ground handling and storage services at all of the cities we serve, with the exception of Fort Wayne, Indiana, which is operated by our employees. We also contract with third parties to provide ground transportation to approximately 46 other cities at which we receive and deliver freight at scheduled times. The impact of an increase in the cost or the decrease in the availability of ground handling and storage services could have a material adverse effect on our business. The unavailability of aircraft due to unscheduled maintenance, accidents and other events may result in the loss of revenue and customers. Our revenues depend on having aircraft available for revenue service. From time to time, we may experience unscheduled maintenance due to equipment failures and accidental damage that makes our aircraft unavailable for revenue service. These problems can be compounded by the fact that spare or replacement parts and components may not be readily available in the marketplace. Failure to obtain necessary parts or components in a timely manner or at favorable prices could ground some of our fleet and result in significantly lower revenues. In the event one or more of our aircraft are out of service for an extended period of time, whether due to unscheduled maintenance, accidents or otherwise, we may be forced to lease replacement aircraft and may be unable to fully operate our business. Further, suitable replacement aircraft may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Loss of revenue from any business interruption or costs to replace airlift could make it difficult to continue to operate our business. The unavailability of trucks and drivers, or increases in the cost of trucking services, may materially adversely affect our results of operations of our LTL ground freight network. Our LTL ground freight network depends on having trucks available for service. We do not own the trucks used in our LTL ground freight network. We contract for dedicated freight hauling capacity under agreements that are terminable on 30 days notice by either party. Failure to have sufficient dedicated freight hauling capacity, at contractually determined prices, could result in significantly lower revenues and could make it difficult for us to operate our ground freight business. 19 Table of Contents Financial costs and operating limitations imposed by the unionization of our workforce could create material labor problems for our business. The pilots of our cargo airline are represented by ALPA, a national union representing airline pilots. We have a Collective Bargaining Agreement with ALPA. The agreement covers all flight crew members of our cargo airline with respect to compensation, benefits, scheduling, grievances, seniority, and furlough and expires December 1, 2013. Although our Collective Bargaining Agreement with our flight crew members prohibits strikes, labor disputes with them could still result in a material adverse effect on our operations. Further, if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A failure of our computer systems could significantly disrupt our business. We utilize a number of computer systems to schedule flights and personnel, track aircraft and freight, bill customers, pay expenses and monitor a variety of our activities, ranging from maintenance and safety compliance to financial performance. The failure of the hardware or software that support these computer systems, or the loss of data contained in any of them, could significantly disrupt our operations. Aircraft accidents and the resulting repercussions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are vulnerable to potential losses that may be incurred in the event of an aircraft accident. Any such accident could involve not only repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequent temporary or permanent loss from revenue service, but also potential claims involving injury to persons or property. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. Although we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate and consistent with current industry practice, including our substantial deductibles, we cannot be assured that our coverage or premiums will not be changed or that we will not suffer substantial losses and lost revenues from accidents. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could result in FAA directives or investigations or could cause a perception that some of our aircraft are less safe or reliable than other aircraft, which could result in costly compliance requirements, the grounding of some of our fleet and the loss of customers. Any aircraft accident and the repercussion thereof could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Government Regulation If we lose our authority to conduct flight operations, we will be unable to run our air freight business. We are subject to Title 49 of the United States Code, formerly the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, under which the DOT and the FAA, exercise regulatory authority over air carriers. The DOT and the FAA have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us for failure to comply with the provisions of law or applicable regulations. In addition, the DOT and the FAA may impose civil or criminal penalties for violations of applicable rules and regulations. In addition, we are subject to regulation by various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration, the Department of Defense and the Environmental Protection Agency. In order to maintain authority to conduct flight operations, we must comply with statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Without the necessary authority to conduct flight operations, we will be unable to run our air freight business. Safety, training and maintenance regulations may hinder our ability to conduct operations or may result in fines or increased costs. Virtually every aspect of our cargo airline is subject to extensive regulation by the FAA, including the areas of safety, training and maintenance. To ensure compliance with FAA rules and regulations, the FAA 20 Table of Contents routinely inspects air carrier operations and aircraft and can impose civil monetary penalties in the event of non-compliance. Periodically, the FAA focuses on particular aspects of air carrier operations occasioned as a result of a major incident. These types of inspections and regulations often impose additional burdens on air carriers and increase their operating costs. We cannot predict when we will be subject to such inspections or regulations, nor the impact of such inspections or regulations. Other regulations promulgated by state and federal Occupational Safety and Health Administrations, dealing with the health and safety of our employees, impact our operations. In addition, all of our aircraft are subject to FAA directives issued at any time, including directives issued under the FAA’s “Aging Aircraft” program, or directives issued on an ad hoc basis. These directives can cause us to conduct extensive examinations and structural inspections of our aircraft, engines and components and to make modifications to them to address or prevent problems of corrosion, structural fatigue or additional maintenance requirements. In addition, the FAA may mandate installation of additional equipment on our aircraft, the cost of which may be substantial. Apart from these aircraft related regulations, the FAA may adopt regulations involving other aspects of our air carrier operations, such as training, cargo loading, ground facilities and communications. This extensive regulatory framework, coupled with federal, state and local environmental laws, imposes significant compliance burdens and risks that substantially affect our costs. If we improperly ship hazardous materials or contraband, we could incur substantial fines or damages. The FAA and DOT exercise regulatory jurisdiction over transporting hazardous materials and contraband. We frequently transport articles that are subject to these regulations. Shippers of hazardous materials share responsibility with the air and ground carrier for compliance with these regulations and are primarily responsible for proper packaging and labeling. Although required to do so, customers may fail to inform us about hazardous or illegal cargo. If we fail to discover any undisclosed weapons, explosives, illegal drugs or other hazardous or illegal cargo or mislabel or otherwise improperly ship hazardous materials, we may suffer possible aircraft or truck damage or liability, as well as fines, penalties or flight bans, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Department of Homeland Security and Transportation Security Administration regulations may result in unanticipated costs. As a result of the passage of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, the U.S. Congress created the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA. By law, the TSA is directed to adopt regulations for the screening of cargo transported on cargo aircraft. The TSA has implemented various regulations involving the security screening of cargo. At this time, the implementation of these regulations has not materially adversely affected our ability to process cargo or materially increased our operating costs. However, the TSA could adopt additional security and screening requirements that could have an impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo or otherwise materially increase our operating costs. The Department of Homeland Security has also taken over many departments and functions that regulate various aspects of our business, such as the U.S. Customs Service, and has formed a Border and Transportation Directorate. The ability of the Department of Homeland Security to efficiently structure these combined operations and functions may affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. The interests of our principal stockholders may be inconsistent with the interests of our other equity holders and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. As of March 9, 2006, our 5% or greater stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned more than 70.0% of our common stock. These stockholders and their affiliates have substantial influence and may control the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders and their affiliates may also delay or prevent a change of control of our 21 Table of Contents company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Stock ownership by non-U.S. citizens could prevent us from operating our business. We believe that some of our stockholders are non-U.S. citizens. Under current federal law, our cargo airline could cease to be eligible to operate as a cargo airline if more than 25% of our voting stock were owned or controlled by non-U.S. citizens. Moreover, in order to hold an air carrier certificate, our president and two-thirds of our directors and officers must be U.S. citizens. All of our directors and officers are U.S. citizens. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate voting power of non-U.S. persons to 22.5% of the votes voting on or consenting to any matter, and our second amended and restated bylaws do not permit non-U.S. citizens to serve as directors or officers. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including, among others: • our performance and prospects; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • the limited depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • general financial and other market conditions; • the cost and supply of fuel; and • domestic and international economic conditions. In recent years, the public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons that may or may not be related to their operating performance. If the public stock markets continue to experience price and trading volume volatility in the future, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, although our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, our common stock has traded, and may continue to trade, in low volumes. As a result, sales of small amounts of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate greatly, including in a materially adverse manner. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, second amended and restated bylaws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our stockholder rights plan and Credit Facility could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may discourage or prevent another company from acquiring us: • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with any “interested stockholder.” These provisions generally mean that a stockholder who owns more than 15% of our voting stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date that the stockholder became an “interested stockholder,” unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our Credit Facility contain provisions that restrict our ability to merge or consolidate with a potential acquirer. Finally, we have a stockholder rights plan that limits the ability of a person to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the prior approval of our board of directors, except that the beneficial ownership threshold applicable under the stockholder rights plan to Lloyd I. Miller III and his affiliates is 23.5%. Any of the foregoing could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer to acquire our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to our common stockholders in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our earnings for use in our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. Further, covenants contained in our Credit Facility restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our shares of common stock and in some cases on our shares of our Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 