ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Operating Results If the Company’s operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of its common stock could decline. Many factors that can affect the Company’s quarterly and annual results are difficult to control or predict. Some of the factors which can affect a multinational semiconductor business such as the Company are described below. Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Risks That May Affect Multinational Enterprises Weak global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. While the global economy has partially recovered from the economic downturn that began in 2007, continued weakness in the macroeconomic climate has constrained demand for the Company’s semiconductors and there is no guarantee that these conditions will improve in a timely manner or at all or that these conditions will not further decline again in the future. The semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. The Company cannot accurately predict the timing, severity or duration of such downturns. A global recession may result in a decrease in orders for the Company’s products, that may materially adversely affect the Company’s revenues, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to reduction in sales, the Company’s profitability may decrease during economic downturns because the Company may not be able to reduce costs at the same rate as its sales decline. Demand for semiconductor components is increasingly dependent upon the rate of growth of the global economy. Many factors could adversely affect regional or global economic growth. Some of the factors that could slow global economic growth include: volatility in global credit markets, price inflation or deflation for goods, services or materials, a slowdown in the rate of growth of regional economies such as Europe, China or the United States, a significant act of terrorism that disrupts global trade or consumer confidence, and geopolitical tensions including war and civil unrest. Reduced levels of economic activity, or disruptions of international transportation, could adversely affect sales on either a global basis or in specific geographic regions. Market conditions may lead the Company to initiate cost reduction plans, which may negatively affect near term operating results. Weaker customer demand, competitive pricing pressures, excess capacity, weak economic conditions or other factors, may cause the Company to initiate actions to reduce the Company’s cost structure to improve the Company’s future operating results. The cost reduction actions may require incremental costs to implement, which could negatively affect the Company’s operating results in periods when the incremental costs or liabilities are incurred. Disruption in financial markets may adversely affect the Company’s business in a number of ways. The unprecedented contraction and extreme disruption of the credit and financial markets in the United States, Europe, and Asia that began in 2007 led to, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuation of others. A similar tightening of credit in financial markets in the future may limit the ability of the Company’s customers and suppliers to obtain financing for capital purchases and operations. This could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for the Company’s products or reduced ability to finance operations to supply products to the Company. 14 Table of Contents The Company cannot predict the likely duration and severity of disruptions in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Further, fluctuations in worldwide economic conditions make it extremely difficult for the Company to forecast future sales levels based on historical information and trends. Visibility into customer demand is limited due to short order lead times. Portions of the Company’s expenses are fixed and other expenses are tied to expected levels of sales activities. To the extent the Company does not achieve its anticipated levels of sales, its gross profit and net income could be adversely affected. The Company has generated a substantial portion of its net revenues from export sales. The Company believes that a substantial portion of its future net revenues will depend on export sales to customers in international markets, including Asia. International markets are subject to a variety of risks, including changes in policy by the U.S. or foreign governments, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, foreign government instability, social conditions such as civil unrest, economic conditions including high levels of inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the value of foreign currencies and currency exchange rates and trade restrictions or prohibitions. Changes in exchange rates that strengthen the U.S. dollar could increase the price of the Company’s products in the local currencies of the foreign markets it serves. This would result in making the Company’s products relatively more expensive than its competitors’ products that are denominated in local currencies, leading to a reduction in sales or profitability in those foreign markets. The Company has not taken any protective measures against exchange rate fluctuations, such as purchasing hedging instruments. In addition, the Company sells to domestic customers that do business worldwide and cannot predict how the businesses of these customers may be affected by economic or political conditions elsewhere in the world. Such factors could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Semiconductor Industry Specific Risks The volatility of customer demand in the semiconductor industry limits a company’s ability to predict future levels of sales and profitability. Semiconductor suppliers can rapidly increase production output in response to slight increases in demand, leading to a sudden oversupply situation and a subsequent reduction in order rates and revenues as customers adjust their inventories to account for shorter lead times. A rapid and sudden decline in customer demand for products can result in excess quantities of certain products relative to demand. Should this occur, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected as a result of charges to reduce the carrying value of the Company’s inventory to the estimated demand level or market price. The Company’s quarterly revenues are highly dependent upon turns fill orders (orders booked and shipped in the same quarter). The short-term and volatile nature of customer demand makes it extremely difficult to accurately predict near term revenues and profits. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, price-erosion and increased international competition. Significant competitive factors include product features; performance and price; timing of product introductions; emergence of new computer and communications standards; and quality and customer support. If the Company is unable to compete favorably in these areas, revenues and profits could be negatively affected. 15 Table of Contents The short lead-time environment in the semiconductor industry has allowed many end consumers to rely on semiconductor suppliers, stocking representatives and distributors to carry inventory to meet short-term requirements and minimize their investment in on-hand inventory. Customers have worked to minimize the amount of inventory of semiconductors they hold. As a consequence, customers are generally providing less order backlog to the Company and other semiconductor suppliers, resulting in short order lead times and reduced visibility into customer demand. As a consequence of the short lead-time environment and corresponding unpredictability of customer demand, the Company has increased its inventories over the past several years to maintain reliable service levels. If actual customer demand for the Company’s products is different from the Company’s estimated demand, delivery schedules may be impacted, product inventory may have to be scrapped, or the carrying value reduced, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, the Company maintains a network of stocking representatives and distributors that carry inventory to service the volatile short-term demands of end customers. However, like many of its competitors, the Company recognizes revenue on sales of product to stocking representatives on a sell-in basis, rather than a sell-through basis, so fluctuations in inventory accumulation by stocking representatives can exacerbate fluctuations in revenue from sales to such stocking representatives. Also, should the relationship with a distributor or stocking representative be terminated, the level of product returns could be higher than the returns allowance established, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues and results of operations. Uncertain economic growth and customer demand in the semiconductor industry and increased concentration of electronics procurement and manufacturing may led to further price erosion and increased advertising costs. If price erosion occurs, it will have the effect of reducing revenue levels and gross margins in future periods. Furthermore, the trend for the Company’s customers to move their electronics manufacturing to Asian countries has brought increased pricing pressure for Micrel and the semiconductor industry as a whole. Asian based manufacturers are typically more concerned about cost and less concerned about the capability of the integrated circuits they purchase. The increased concentration of electronics procurement and manufacturing in the Asia Pacific region may lead to continued price pressure and additional product advertising costs for the Company’s products in the future. Many semiconductor companies, including the Company, face risks associated with a dependence upon third parties that manufacture, assemble, package or supply raw materials for certain of its products. These risks include reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; potential increases in prices; disruption in supply due to civil unrest, terrorism, natural disasters or other events which may occur in the countries in which the subcontractors or suppliers operate; and potential misappropriation of the Company’s intellectual property. The occurrence of any of these events may lead to increased costs or delay delivery of the Company’s products, which would harm its profitability and customer relationships. Furthermore, a major disruption to any part of the Company's customers' supply chains could decrease their output and subsequently result in lower demand for the Company's products. 16 Table of Contents The Company generally does not have long-term supply contracts with its third-party vendors. Therefore, most of its vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to the Company for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular accepted purchase order or guarantee. Additionally, the Company’s wafer and product requirements typically represent a relatively small portion of the total production of the suppliers, third-party foundries and outside assembly, testing and packaging contractors. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that a third-party supplier will provide delivery or capacity priority to other larger customers to the Company’s detriment, resulting in an inadequate supply to meet customer demand or higher costs to obtain the necessary product supply. The Company outsources some of its wafer fabrication, most of its test and all of its assembly requirements to third-party vendors. When demand for semiconductors improves, availability of these outsourced services typically becomes tight, resulting in longer than normal lead times and delinquent shipments to customers. The degree to which Micrel may have difficulty obtaining these services could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues, bookings and backlog. If these lead times are extended, the resulting loss of near-term visibility for our customers could result in their placing higher order levels than their actual requirements which may result in higher levels of order cancellations in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately forecast demand and moderate its build schedules to accommodate the possibility of an increase in order cancellations. The markets that the Company serves frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. If the Company’s products are unable to support the new features or performance levels required by OEMs in these markets, the Company would likely lose business from existing or potential customers and would not have the opportunity to compete for new design wins until the next product transition. If the Company fails to develop products with required features or performance standards or experiences even a short delay in bringing a new product to market, or if its customers fail to achieve market acceptance of their products, its revenues could be significantly reduced for a substantial period of time. Because the standard products market for ICs is diverse and highly fragmented, the Company encounters different competitors in various market areas. Many of these competitors have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources and greater name recognition than the Company. The Company may not be able to compete successfully in either the standard products or custom and foundry products businesses in the future and competitive pressures may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The success of companies in the semiconductor industry depends in part upon intellectual property, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technology innovation. The success of companies like Micrel may depend on their ability to obtain necessary intellectual property rights and protect such rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. There can be no assurance that any patent owned by the Company will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages or that any of its pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company’s technology, duplicate technology or design around the patents owned by the Company. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights have been asserted against the Company in the past and could be asserted against the Company in the future. These claims could result in the Company having to discontinue the use of certain processes or designs; cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products; incur significant litigation costs and damages; attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property and develop non-infringing technology. The Company may not be able to obtain or renew such licenses on acceptable terms or to develop non-infringing technology. Existing claims or other assertions or claims for indemnity resulting from infringement claims could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, the Company relies on third parties for certain technology that is integrated into some of its products. If the Company is unable to continue to use or license third-party technologies in its products on acceptable terms, or the technology fails to operate, the Company may not be able to secure alternative technologies in a timely manner and its business would be harmed. The significant investment in semiconductor manufacturing capacity and the rapid growth of circuit design centers in China may present a competitive threat to established semiconductor companies due to the current low cost of labor and capital in China. The emergence of low cost competitors in China could reduce the revenues and profitability of established semiconductor manufacturers. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including management, engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of the Company’s products, and harm its ability to sell its products. The Company believes that its future success is dependent on the contributions of its senior management, including its President and Chief Executive Officer, certain other executive officers and senior engineering personnel. The Company does not have long-term employment contracts with these or any other key personnel, and their knowledge of the Company’s business and industry would be difficult to replace. Companies in the semiconductor industry are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in its manufacturing process. Any failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes or a cessation of operations. In addition, these regulations could restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities at their present locations or construct or operate a new wafer fabrication facility or could require the Company to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations or clean up prior discharges. The Company’s failure to appropriately control the use of, disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject it to future liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on its business. Company-Specific Risks In addition to the risks that affect multinational semiconductor companies listed above, there are additional risks which are more specific to the Company such as: An important part of the Company’s strategy is to continue to focus on the market for high-speed communications ICs. Should demand from the Company’s customers in this end market decrease, or if lower customer demand for the Company’s high bandwidth products materializes, the Company’s future revenue growth and profitability could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents The wireless handset (cellular telephone) market comprises a significant portion of the Company’s standard product revenues. The Company derives a significant portion of its net revenues from customers serving the wireless handset market. Due to the highly competitive and fast changing environment in which the Company’s wireless handset customers operate, demand for the product the Company sells into this end market can change rapidly and unexpectedly. If the Company’s wireless handset customers' acceptance of Micrel’s products decreases, or if these customers lose market share, or accumulate too much inventory of completed handsets, the demand for the Company’s products could decline sharply which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and results of operations. The Company’s gross margin, operating margin and net income are highly dependent on the level of revenue, average selling prices and capacity utilization that the Company experiences. A decline in average selling prices (“ASPs”) could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, gross margins and results of operations unless the Company is able to sell more units, reduce its costs, and introduce new products with higher ASPs or some combination thereof. Semiconductor manufacturing is a capital-intensive business resulting in high fixed costs. If the Company is unable to utilize its installed wafer fabrication or test capacity at a high level, the costs associated with these facilities and equipment would not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower profit margins. The Company has invested in certain auction rate securities that may not be accessible for in excess of 12 months and these auction rate securities may experience an other than temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect the Company’s income. At December 31, 2011, the Company held $7.8 million in principal of auction rate notes secured by student loans. As of December 31, 2011, all of these auction rate securities failed to auction successfully due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. The Company recorded a $581,000 net of tax ($947,000 pre-tax) temporary impairment of these securities to other comprehensive income, a component of shareholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other than temporarily impaired, the Company would record a loss, which could be material, in its statement of operations in the period such other than temporary decline in fair value is determined. For additional information regarding the Company’s investments, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company faces various risks associated with the trend toward increased shareholder activism. In 2008, the Company became engaged in a proxy contest with a large shareholder. This dispute led to a significant increase in operating expenses which appreciably reduced the Company’s operating profit and net income. Although this dispute was resolved, the Company could become engaged in another proxy contest in the future. Another proxy contest would require significant additional management time and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. To the extent that the Company becomes involved in such intellectual property litigation, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources to the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents In the event of an adverse ruling in any intellectual property litigation that might arise in the future, the Company might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes or designs, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. There can be no assurance, however, that under such circumstances, a license would be available under reasonable terms or at all. In the event of a successful claim against the Company and the Company’s failure to develop or license substitute technology on commercially reasonable terms, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. The complexity of the Company’s products may lead to errors or defects, which could subject the Company to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of its products. Although the Company’s customers and suppliers rigorously test its products, these products may contain undetected errors, weaknesses or defects. If any of the Company’s products contain production defects, reliability, quality or compatibility problems that are significant, the Company’s reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to continue to buy its products. This could adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain and attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales of affected products, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. If defects are discovered after commencement of commercial production, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to resolve the problems. This could result in significant additional development costs and the diversion of technical and other resources from other development efforts. The Company could also incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products or may agree to be liable for certain damages incurred. These costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company will continue to expend substantial resources developing new products, applications or markets and may never achieve the sales volume that it anticipates for these products, which may limit the Company’s future growth and harm its results of operations. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon the success of new products. The Company has in the past, and will likely in the future, expend substantial resources in developing new and additional products for new applications and markets. The Company may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products and experience defects upon volume production and broad deployment. The markets the Company enters will likely be highly competitive and competitors may have substantially more experience in these markets. The Company’s success will depend on the growth of the markets it enters, the competitiveness of its products and its ability to increase market share in these markets. If the Company enters markets that do not achieve or sustain the growth it anticipates, or if the Company’s products are not competitive, it may not achieve volume sales, which may limit the Company’s future growth and would harm its results of operations. If the Company is unable to convert a significant portion of its design wins into revenue, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. The Company has secured a number of design wins for new and existing products. Such design wins are necessary for revenue growth. However, many of the Company’s design wins may never generate revenues if end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the marketplace or the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons. Mergers and consolidations among customers may lead to termination of certain projects before the associated design win generates revenue. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue is typically from six months to greater than eighteen months. If the Company fails to convert a significant portion of its design wins into substantial revenue, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents If the Company’s distributors or sales representatives stop selling or fail to successfully promote its products, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Micrel sells many of its products through sales representatives and distributors. The Company’s non-exclusive distributors and sales representatives may carry its competitors’ products, which could adversely impact or limit sales of the Company’s products. Additionally, they could reduce or discontinue sales of the Company’s products or may not devote the resources necessary to adequately sell the Company’s products. The Company’s agreements with distributors contain limited provisions for return of products, including stock rotations whereby distributors may return a percentage of their purchases based upon a percentage of their most recent three months of shipments. In addition, in certain circumstances upon termination of the distributor relationship, distributors may return some or all of their prior purchases. The loss of business from any of the Company’s significant distributors or the delay of significant orders from any of them could materially and adversely harm the Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, the Company depends on the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors and sales representatives, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital. In turn, these distributors and sales representatives are subject to general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. If some or all of the Company’s distributors and sales representatives experience financial difficulties, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to promote and sell the Company’s products, or deliver the Company’s products in a timely manner, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The Company manufactures most of its semiconductors at its San Jose, California fabrication facilities. The Company’s existing wafer fabrication facility, located in Northern California, may be subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or prolonged drought, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, manufacturing semiconductors requires manufacturing tools that are unique to each product being produced. If one of these unique manufacturing tools was damaged or destroyed, the Company’s ability to manufacture the related product would be impaired and its business would suffer until the tool was repaired or replaced. Additionally, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process. Small impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, manufacturing equipment failures, and wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. The Company maintains approximately two to three months of inventory that has completed the wafer fabrication manufacturing process. This inventory is generally located offshore at third party subcontractors but may not be sufficient to fully mitigate the adverse impact from a disruption to the Company’s San Jose wafer fabrication activity arising from a natural disaster such as an earthquake. 21 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to disruptions or failures in information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. As computer malware, virus, hacking, and phishing attack activities as well as internet crimes have become more widespread, the Company is adding this risk factor to address the potential impact on its business and operations. The Company relies on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and network infrastructures to operate its business. A disruption, infiltration or failure of the Company's information technology systems as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, system implementations or upgrades, computer viruses, third-party security breaches, employee error, theft or misuse, malfeasance, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security, loss of intellectual property and critical data and the release and misappropriation of sensitive competitive information and partner, customer and employee personal data. Any of these events could harm the Company's competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, cause the Company to incur significant costs to remedy any damages and ultimately materially adversely affect its business and financial condition. While the Company has implemented a number of protective measures, including firewalls, antivirus, patches, data encryption, log monitors, routine back-ups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning, routine password modifications and disaster recovery procedures, such measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent or fully address the adverse effect of such events. In addition, the Company's third-party subcontractors, including its test and assembly houses and distributors, have access to certain portions of the Company's and its customers' and partners' sensitive data. In the event that these subcontractors do not properly safeguard such data, security breaches and loss of data could result. Any such loss of data by its third-party subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition. The Company’s results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimations and judgments used in applying its accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments used by the Company in applying its accounting policies have a significant impact on its results of operations. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in rulemaking by the regulatory bodies, and factors may arise over time that lead the Company to change its methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly impact the Company’s results of operations. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide tax liabilities. The Company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. However, if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 