ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Results and Market Price of Stock This annual report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” concerning our business, operations and financial performance and condition. When we use the words “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “plans,” “intends,” “believes” and variations of such words or similar expressions, we intend to identify forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking statements on our current assumptions and expectations about future events. We have expressed our assumptions and expectations in good faith, and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them. However, we cannot assure you that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be accurate. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements are set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. These risks, uncertainties and other important factors include, among others: • loss of key suppliers, significant customers or key management personnel; • increased competition, including the possible impact of any mergers, alliances or combinations of competitors; • increases in the cost and/or decreases in the availability of aircraft fuel and/or diesel fuel and our ability to recapture increases in the cost of such fuel through the use of fuel surcharges and/or price increases; • with respect to our scheduled freight network, the continuing high cost of aircraft and diesel fuel leading to a higher total price for our services which impacts the freight purchasing decision for our customers and/or shippers resulting in a shift to less expensive modes of transportation; • with respect to our recent expansion of our ground freight transportation network to include scheduled deferred freight transportation services, potential competitive reactions from other carriers; • limitations upon financial and operating flexibility due to the terms of our Revolving Facility; • changes in our capital resources and liquidity; • financial costs and operating limitations imposed by both the current and potential additional future unionization of our workforce; • payment defaults by our customers; • write-downs of the value of our aircraft parts, airframes or aircraft engines; • changes in the cost of Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft maintenance outside the scope of our power-by-the-hour maintenance agreement and/or changes in the cost of Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft maintenance; • changes in general economic conditions; • changes in the cost and availability of ground handling and storage services; • changes in the cost and availability of aircraft or replacement parts; • changes in our business strategy or development plans; 14 Table of Contents • changes in government regulation and policies, including regulations affecting maintenance requirements for, and availability of, aircraft and airworthiness directives or service bulletins; • foreign political instability and acts of war or terrorism; • adverse litigation judgments or awards; • the ability to attract and retain customers and freight volumes for our scheduled freight network; • findings of environmental contamination and/or the cost of remediation; • limitations in our ability to find, acquire and integrate replacement aircraft for our Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft under terms and conditions that are satisfactory to us; and • limitations in our ability to offset income with our future deductible tax attributes. Other factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and, except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business The as-needed nature of our scheduled freight business and the types of industries we serve subject our business to significant market fluctuations that are beyond our control, and a downward market fluctuation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our scheduled freight network relies on customers who need expedited or time-definite delivery on an as-needed basis for air freight and time-definite delivery on an as-needed basis for ground freight. As the freight is shipped on an as-needed basis, we do not have commitments from our customers. Without customer commitments, the overall demand for our freight services is primarily influenced by the health of the U.S. economy, which is cyclical in nature, the seasonality and economic health of the industries generating the freight we transport in our network and the availability, reliability and cost of alternative freight services including services from competitors who are larger than we are, serve more cities than we do and have more financial resources than we do. The amount of freight shipped in our scheduled freight network during any particular time period can fluctuate significantly due to the foregoing factors. A downward fluctuation in demand for our scheduled freight services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to execute upon our plans to increase sales of our ground freight product, or to manage or to generate sufficient revenues from that new line of business, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We operate an independent primarily airport-to-airport scheduled freight network that provides two products for predominantly heavy weight and oversized freight, an expedited overnight and second-morning air product to 54 business centers and a time-definite ground freight product to 46 cities as of March 26, 2007. Our growth plans for our ground freight product will place significant demands on our management and operating personnel. If we are unable to manage the growth of our ground freight product effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, our business and future operating results will depend on the ability of our management and operating personnel to expand our ground freight product as well as successfully and fully integrate the operations we acquired from ACT. 15 Table of Contents Our inability to attract and retain sufficient business from customers at economical prices for our expedited air and deferred ground freight product could impair our ability to compete and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The profitability of our network depends on our ability to carry sufficient freight to cover the fixed costs of our network including but not limited to aircraft leases, pilots, maintenance and support infrastructure, facilities and trucking costs, working capital needs associated with operating and expanding our ground freight services and certain recurring fixed costs. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient business from customers willing to pay rates sufficient to cover our costs and generate a profit, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of their business or payment defaults by one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have over 550 active freight forwarder, logistics company and international and domestic airline customers. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, our top 25 customers accounted for more than 51.3% of our total revenue and our top five customers accounted for more than 23.7% of our total revenue. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, our top three network customers, Pilot Air Freight, Inc., Eagle Global Logistics, Inc. and AIT Freight Systems, Inc., accounted for 8.6%, 4.8% and 4.1% of our total revenue, respectively. Additionally, our contracts with the U.S. Postal Service accounted for more than 14.7% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. We do not have material minimum shipping contracts with our customers, including our most significant customers. The loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant reduction in the use of our services by one or more of these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had a significant concentration of credit risk because approximately 48.3% of our outstanding accounts receivable were from ten customers and 19.0% of our outstanding accounts receivable were attributable to one customer, the U.S. Postal Service. A payment default by one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have potential liquidity issues and further financing cannot be guaranteed During 2006, we generated significant losses due to, among other things, the on going startup of our ground freight product, acquiring substantially all of the operating assets of ACT, weakness in demand for our air freight product and high fuel expenses. While we believe we have sufficient available cash and borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility to fund our working capital needs over the next twelve months, there is no assurance that our forecasts will prove to be accurate. If the demand for our expedited freight services continues to be negatively impacted by rising fuel prices or general industry weakness in 2007, we may need to raise additional funds, supplement our current sources of liquidity during the next twelve months. Substantially all of our assets are encumbered under the Revolving Facility. If we are required to raise additional funds or supplement our existing sources of liquidity and are unable to do so either on economic terms or at all, our business may be materially adversely affected. The terms of our Revolving Facility could restrict our operations. Our Revolving Facility contains non-financial covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: engage in mergers, consolidations, or other reorganizations; create or permit liens on assets; dispose of certain assets; incur certain indebtedness; guarantee obligations; pay dividends or other distributions (other than dividends on our Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock); materially change the nature of our business; make certain investments; make certain loans or advances; prepay certain indebtedness (with the exception of Laurus or in the ordinary course of business); change our fiscal year or make changes in accounting treatment or reporting practices except as required by GAAP or the law; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; or form new subsidiaries. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in activities which could improve our business, including obtaining future financing, making needed capital expenditures, or taking advantage of 16 Table of Contents business opportunities such as strategic acquisitions and dispositions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with certain covenants in the Revolving Facility could result in an event of default that could cause acceleration of the repayment of our indebtedness. As discussed above, the terms of the Revolving Facility require us to comply with certain non-financial covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants and requirements contained in the Revolving Facility could cause an event of default. There can be no assurance that Laurus would waive any non-compliance. Further, the occurrence of an event of default (that is uncured or unwaived) could prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings and permit Laurus to declare the amount outstanding under the Revolving Facility to be immediately due and payable. In addition, pursuant to our lockbox arrangement with Laurus, upon an event of default, Laurus could apply all of the payments on our accounts receivable to repay the amount outstanding under the Revolving Facility. In that event, we would not have access to the cash flow generated by our accounts receivable until the amount outstanding under the Revolving Facility is first repaid in full. An event of default under our Revolving Facility, particularly if followed by an acceleration of any outstanding amount, could have a material adverse effect on our business. At March 29, 2007, we had a borrowing base of $14.7 million and $9.3 million of outstanding borrowings, which includes $3.9 million to cash collateralize our outstanding letters of credit. In the event of an event of default, our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay fully our borrowings under our Revolving Facility, and we may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on the Revolving Facility on favorable terms or at all. The U.S. freight transportation industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete, our results of operations and profitability may be materially adversely affected. The U.S. freight transportation industry is extremely large and encompasses a broad range of transportation modes and service levels. Freight is shipped on either an expedited or time-definite basis. Expedited freight transit times vary from a few hours to overnight to second morning. In contrast, time-definite freight includes scheduled freight transit times of up to five days. Both expedited and time-definite freight include freight of varying sizes and weights, from small envelopes to heavy weight or oversized freight requiring dedicated aircraft or trucks. Our scheduled freight network generally competes in the inter-city, heavy weight and oversized, next morning and second-day expedited and time-definite freight segments of the U.S. freight transportation industry. These segments are highly competitive and very fragmented. The ability to compete effectively depends on price, frequency of service, cargo capacity, ability to track freight, extent of geographic coverage and reliability. We generally compete with regional delivery firms, commercial passenger airlines that provide freight service on their scheduled flights, trucking companies for deliveries of less than 1,000 mile distances, regional and national expedited and less-than-truckload trucking companies and integrated freight transportation companies, such as FedEx and United Parcel Service. Many of our competitors have substantially larger freight networks, serve significantly more cities and have considerably more freight system capacity, capital and financial resources than we do. Our ability to attract and retain business also is affected by whether, and to what extent, our customers decide to coordinate their own transportation needs. Certain of our current customers maintain transportation departments that could be expanded to manage freight transportation in-house. If we cannot successfully compete against companies providing services similar to, or that are substitutes for, our own or if our customers begin to provide for themselves the services we currently provide to them, our business may be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of the freight transported in our network relates to the automotive, electronics, telecom and related infrastructure equipment, other durable goods and equipment industries and apparel. The demand for the products produced by these industries and, in turn, the demand for our scheduled freight network services for the transportation of freight from these industries has historically trended in relationship 17 Table of Contents to the strength of the U.S. and increasingly, world economies. Furthermore, these industries tend to be seasonal in nature and, as a result, our business is also seasonal with the third and fourth quarters historically having the strongest demand and being the highest revenue quarters. We experienced weak demand during the traditional peak season shipping pattern for 2006 and continue to experience weak demand during the first quarter of 2007. We believe other domestic freight transportation companies may have also experienced similar weaker than historical demand during this period. ACT has been operated as a private company that is not subject to Sarbanes-Oxley Act regulations and, therefore, may lack the internal controls and procedures of a public company. The management of ACT was not required to establish and maintain an internal control infrastructure meeting the standards promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, there is no assurance that the business acquired from ACT does not have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. Any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the internal control over financial reporting of the acquired business may cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and affect our ability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Writedowns of the value of our aircraft parts and supplies inventory could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. When we emerged from bankruptcy in September 2002, we had a substantial amount of Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory. The amount of aircraft parts and supplies inventory necessary to operate our Boeing 727-200 fleet is dependent upon the number of Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft that we operate as well as the number of hours they fly. To the extent we reduce the number of Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft that we operate in the future either through attrition or replacement with other aircraft types, including the Boeing 737-300SF cargo aircraft, we may need fewer Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory to maintain our Boeing 727-200 fleet. If we conclude we have aircraft parts and supplies inventory in excess of our current or anticipated future needs and if we determine that the fair market value of our Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory has declined from our current carrying value, we would writedown the value of our Boeing 727-200 aircraft parts and supplies inventory. We review this inventory periodically and value it at least annually. In conjunction with a review of our aircraft fleet composition plan and Boeing 727-200 cargo aircraft parts and supplies at the end of 2006, we estimated that the recorded cost of a portion of our active inventory and aircraft supplies exceeded fair market value and recorded a $2.3 million lower of cost or market adjustment. As of December 31, 2006, we maintained a surplus inventory parts and supplies valuation reserve of $0.2 million, which was reduced from $1.7 million at December 31, 2005. The net effect of these adjustments was additional expense of $0.8 million. The carrying value of our inventory, including reserves, was approximately $2.2 million as of December 31, 2006. Any further writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we lose access to, or sustain damage to, our Fort Wayne, Indiana facilities, our business would be interrupted, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our Fort Wayne, Indiana facilities act as the hub of our expedited scheduled air freight services. Most of the air freight we transport passes through our Fort Wayne facilities on the way to its final destination. If we are unable to access our Fort Wayne facilities because of security concerns, a natural disaster, a condemnation or otherwise or if these facilities are destroyed or materially damaged, our business would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, any damage to our Fort Wayne facilities could damage some or all of the freight in the facilities. If freight is damaged, we may be liable to our customers for such damage and we may lose sales and customers as a result. Any material damages we must pay to customers, or material loss of sales or customers, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We have a $10 million business interruption insurance policy to both offset the cost of, and compensate us for, certain events which interrupt our operations. However, the coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for all potential losses and the conditions to the coverage may preclude us from obtaining reimbursement for some potential losses. While we have attempted to select our level of coverage based upon the most likely potential disasters and events that could interrupt our business, we may not have been able to foresee all the costs and implications of a disaster or other event and, therefore, the coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for our losses or the impact the potential loss of business would have on our future operations. Any material losses for which we are unable to obtain reimbursement may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in the cost, or a reduction in the availability, of airframe or aircraft engine maintenance may result in increased costs. To keep our owned and leased aircraft in airworthy condition, we hire third parties to perform scheduled heavy airframe and aircraft engine maintenance on them. An increase in the cost of airframe or aircraft engine maintenance would increase our maintenance expenses. In addition, a reduction in the availability of airframe or aircraft engine maintenance services could result in delays in getting airframes or aircraft engines serviced and result in increased maintenance expenses and lost revenue. Any increase in maintenance expenses or loss of revenue due to delays in obtaining maintenance services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in the cost, or decreases in the supply, of aircraft and/or diesel fuel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. One of our most significant and variable costs is aircraft fuel. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, our aircraft fuel averaged $2.15 per gallon as compared to $1.86 per gallon for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, an increase of 15.6%. Aircraft fuel cost per gallon includes the cost of aircraft fuel and the cost of all taxes, fees and surcharges necessary to deliver the aircraft fuel into the aircraft. The amount of aircraft fuel used in our network depends on the mix of aircraft employed in our network, the amount, origin and destination of freight shipped and the number of days the network is operated during each month. A change in aircraft fuel price will affect our total aircraft fuel expense as these factors fluctuate. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, we used between 1.8 million and 2.4 million gallons of aircraft fuel per month in our scheduled freight network as compared to between 2.1 million and 2.8 million gallons for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. At current levels of operations in our scheduled freight network, each $0.01 change in the price per gallon of aircraft fuel results in a change in our annual fuel cost of approximately $250,000. We purchase aircraft fuel from various suppliers at current market prices. We do not currently have any long-term contracts for aircraft fuel, nor do we currently have any agreements to hedge against increases in the price of aircraft fuel. On a regular basis, we review the price and availability of aircraft fuel. If we have the opportunity and ability to execute individual purchases at favorable prices or terms, enter into long-term supply contracts for aircraft fuel or make arrangements to hedge against changes in aircraft fuel prices, we may enter into such agreements or arrangements. With respect to our ground freight services, we operate through a combination of owner operators, company drivers and truck load carriers from whom we contract dedicated trucks. The owner operators and truck load carriers from whom we contract dedicated trucks pass the increased cost of diesel fuel to us through the use of fuel surcharges. We periodically increase our prices or implement fuel surcharges. Our goal is to offset all of our increased fuel costs, as our scheduled freight network bears the cost of increases in aircraft and diesel fuel prices. If we are unable due to competitive pressures or other reasons to raise our fuel surcharges or prices, we may be forced to absorb increases in aircraft and/or diesel fuel costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, as we attempt to recapture the increase in aircraft and/or diesel fuel costs through increasing our prices to our customers and/or through temporary fuel surcharges, our 19 Table of Contents customers may seek lower cost freight transportation alternatives to our scheduled freight network, which could negatively affect our results of operation. A rise in the cost of aircraft fuel increases our working capital requirements because we pay for fuel in advance of providing air freight transportation services and typically do not collect payment for our services until 30 to 45 days after the services are performed. Additionally, if we were unable to acquire sufficient quantities of aircraft fuel at a price we deem appropriate to fly our aircraft, we would be required to curtail our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increases in the cost, or decreases in the supply, of ground handling and storage services could significantly disrupt our business. We contract with third parties to provide ground handling and storage services at all of the cities we serve, with the exception of Fort Wayne, Indiana; Los Angeles and San Francisco, California; Seattle, Washington; Denver, Colorado; and Salt Lake City, Utah, which are operated by our employees. We also contract with third parties to provide ground transportation at other cities at which we receive and deliver freight at scheduled times. The impact of an increase in the cost or the decrease in the availability of ground handling and storage services could have a material adverse effect on our business. The unavailability of aircraft due to unscheduled maintenance, accidents and other events may result in the loss of revenue and customers. Our revenues depend on having aircraft available for revenue service. From time to time, we may experience unscheduled maintenance due to equipment failures and accidental damage that makes our aircraft unavailable for revenue service. These problems can be compounded by the fact that spare or replacement parts and components as well as third party maintenance contractors may not be readily available in the marketplace. Failure to obtain necessary parts or components in a timely manner or at favorable prices could ground some of our fleet and result in significantly lower revenues. In the event one or more of our aircraft are out of service for an extended period of time, whether due to unscheduled maintenance, accidents or otherwise, we may be forced to lease replacement aircraft and may be unable to fully operate our business. Further, suitable replacement aircraft may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Loss of revenue from any business interruption or costs to replace airlift could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The unavailability of trucks, drivers and owner operators, or increases in the cost of trucking services, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our ground freight services depend on having trucks available for service. We own some of the trucks used to provide our ground freight services. We also have agreements with owner operators and contract for dedicated freight hauling capacity under agreements that are terminable on 30 days notice by either party. Failure to have sufficient owner operators or dedicated freight hauling capacity, at contractually determined prices, could result in significantly lower revenues and could make it difficult for us to offer our ground freight product. Financial costs and operating limitations imposed by the unionization of our workforce could create material labor problems for our business. The pilots of our cargo airline are represented by ALPA, a national union representing airline pilots. We have a Collective Bargaining Agreement with ALPA. The agreement covers all flight crew members of our cargo airline with respect to compensation, benefits, scheduling, grievances, seniority, and furlough and expires December 1, 2013. On February 9, 2007, we began renegotiations with ALPA as permitted under the Collective Bargaining Agreement on crew member compensation and our matching contributions to our 401(k) plan. If a settlement is not reached by April 9, 2007, both parties will be required to submit their best and 20 Table of Contents final position to a final offer, or “baseball” style arbitration. We cannot determine if the outcome of the renegotiations will have a material adverse effect on its costs or operations. Although our Collective Bargaining Agreement with our flight crew members prohibits strikes, labor disputes with them could still result in a material adverse effect on our operations. Further, if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A failure of our computer systems could significantly disrupt our business. We utilize a number of computer systems to schedule flights and personnel, track aircraft and freight, bill customers, pay expenses and monitor a variety of our activities, ranging from maintenance and safety compliance to financial performance. The failure of the hardware or software that support these computer systems, or the loss of data contained in any of them, could significantly disrupt our operations. Aircraft or truck accidents and the resulting repercussions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to potential losses that may be incurred in the event of an aircraft or truck accident. Any such accident could involve not only repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft or truck and its consequent temporary or permanent loss from revenue service, but also potential claims involving injury to persons or property. We are required by the Department of Transportation, or DOT, to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft and trucks. Although we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate and consistent with current industry practice, including our substantial deductibles, we cannot be assured that our coverage or premiums will not be changed or that we will not suffer substantial losses and lost revenues from accidents. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could result in Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, directives or investigations or could cause a perception that some of our aircraft are less safe or reliable than other aircraft, which could result in costly compliance requirements, the grounding of some of our fleet and the loss of customers. Any accident and the repercussion thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Government Regulation If we lose our authority to conduct flight operations, we will be unable to run our air freight business. We are subject to Title 49 of the United States Code, formerly the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, under which the DOT and the FAA, exercise regulatory authority over air carriers. The DOT and the FAA have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us for failure to comply with the provisions of law or applicable regulations. In addition, the DOT and the FAA may impose civil or criminal penalties for violations of applicable rules and regulations. In addition, we are subject to regulation by various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration, the Department of Defense and the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA. In order to maintain authority to conduct flight operations, we must comply with statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Without the necessary authority to conduct flight operations, we will be unable to run our air freight business. FAA safety, training and maintenance regulations may hinder our ability to conduct operations or may result in fines or increased costs. Virtually every aspect of our cargo airline is subject to extensive regulation by the FAA, including the areas of safety, training and maintenance. To ensure compliance with FAA rules and regulations, the FAA routinely inspects air carrier operations and aircraft and can impose civil monetary penalties in the event of non-compliance. Periodically, the FAA focuses on particular aspects of air carrier operations occasioned as a result of a major incident. These types of inspections and regulations often impose additional burdens on air carriers and increase their operating costs. We cannot predict when we will be subject to such inspections or 21 Table of Contents regulations, nor the impact of such inspections or regulations. Other regulations promulgated by state and federal Occupational Safety and Health Administrations, dealing with the health and safety of our employees, impact our operations. In addition, all of our aircraft are subject to FAA directives issued at any time, including directives issued under the FAA’s “Aging Aircraft” program, or directives issued on an ad hoc basis. These directives can cause us to conduct extensive examinations and structural inspections of our aircraft, engines and components and to make modifications to them to address or prevent problems of corrosion, structural fatigue or additional maintenance requirements. In addition, the FAA may mandate installation of additional equipment on our aircraft, the cost of which may be substantial. Apart from these aircraft related regulations, the FAA may adopt regulations involving other aspects of our air carrier operations, such as training, cargo loading, ground facilities and communications. This extensive regulatory framework, coupled with federal, state and local environmental laws, imposes significant compliance burdens and risks that substantially affect our costs. Our trucking operations are highly regulated, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state, local and quasi governmental agencies exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation and safety reporting. We expect periodic audits by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service and other rules and regulations. In addition, our drivers must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. If we are found to be out of compliance with those rules or regulations, the DOT could restrict or otherwise negatively impact our operations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Any fines, remedial actions or compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective October 1, 2002, the EPA required that most newly manufactured heavy-duty truck engines comply with certain new emission standards. We are operating 34 trucks with these 2002 rule-compliant engines. In addition to higher initial purchase prices, these trucks also generally have lower fuel efficiency. Effective with model-year 2007 trucks, the EPA has mandated even lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty truck engines, which may increase the cost and reduce the fuel efficiency of new engines. The increased cost of complying with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we improperly ship hazardous materials or contraband, we could incur substantial fines or damages. Several federal agencies, including the FAA and DOT, exercise regulatory jurisdiction over transporting hazardous materials and contraband. We frequently transport articles that are subject to these regulations. Shippers of hazardous materials share responsibility with the air and ground carrier for compliance with these regulations and are primarily responsible for proper packaging and labeling. Although required to do so, customers may fail to inform us about hazardous or illegal cargo. If we fail to discover any undisclosed weapons, explosives, illegal drugs or other hazardous or illegal cargo or mislabel or otherwise improperly ship hazardous materials, we may suffer possible aircraft or truck damage or liability, as well as fines, penalties or flight bans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things, the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, air emissions from our aircraft, vehicles and facilities and noise pollution. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We may be liable whether or not we are aware of or caused the release of hazardous or toxic substances. In part because of the highly industrialized nature of many of the locations at which we operate, there can be no assurance that we have discovered environmental contamination for which 22 Table of Contents we may be responsible. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Department of Homeland Security and Transportation Security Administration regulations may result in unanticipated costs. As a result of the passage of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, the U.S. Congress created the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA. By law, the TSA is directed to adopt regulations for the screening of cargo transported on cargo aircraft. The TSA has implemented various regulations involving the security screening of cargo. At this time, the implementation of these regulations has not materially adversely affected our ability to process cargo or materially increased our operating costs. However, the TSA could adopt additional security and screening requirements that could have an impact on the ability to efficiently process cargo or otherwise materially increase our operating costs. The Department of Homeland Security has also taken over many departments and functions that regulate various aspects of our business, such as the U.S. Customs Service, and has formed a Border and Transportation Directorate. The Department of Homeland Security’s management of these combined operations and functions may affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. The interests of our principal stockholders may be inconsistent with the interests of our other equity holders and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, our 5% or greater stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned more than 70.0% of our common stock. These stockholders and their affiliates have substantial influence on and may control the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders and their affiliates may also delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Stock ownership by non-U.S. citizens could prevent us from operating our business. We believe that some of our stockholders are non-U.S. citizens. Under current federal law, our cargo airline could cease to be eligible to operate as a cargo airline if more than 25% of our voting stock were owned or controlled by non-U.S. citizens. Moreover, in order to hold an air carrier certificate, our president and two-thirds of our directors and officers must be U.S. citizens. All of our directors and officers are U.S. citizens. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, or the Certificate, limits the aggregate voting power of non-U.S. persons to 22.5% of the votes voting on or consenting to any matter, and our second amended and restated bylaws, or the Bylaws, do not permit non-U.S. citizens to serve as directors or officers. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including, among others: • our performance and prospects; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • the limited depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; 23 Table of Contents • general financial and other market conditions; • the cost and supply of fuel; and • domestic and international economic conditions. In recent years, the public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons that may or may not be related to their operating performance. If the public stock markets continue to experience price and trading volume volatility in the future, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, although our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, small changes in the price per share could result in a large percentage change in the price per share. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Provisions in our Certificate, Bylaws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our stockholder rights plan and Revolving Facility could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our Certificate and Bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may discourage or prevent another company from acquiring us: • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with any “interested stockholder.” These provisions generally mean that a stockholder who owns more than 15% of our voting stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date that the stockholder became an “interested stockholder,” unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our Revolving Facility contain provisions that restrict our ability to merge or consolidate with a potential acquirer. Finally, we have a stockholder rights plan that limits the ability of a person to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the prior approval of our board of directors, except that the beneficial ownership threshold applicable under the stockholder rights plan to Lloyd I. Miller III and his affiliates is 23.5%. Any of the foregoing could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer to acquire our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to our common stockholders in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our earnings for use in our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. Further, covenants contained in our Revolving Facility restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our shares of common stock and in some cases on our shares of our Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 