Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision with respect to the common stock of the Company. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS. We may experience significant fluctuations in our future results of operations due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • demand for and market acceptance of our products and services; • the size and timing of customer orders, particularly large orders; • introduction of products and services or enhancements by us and our competitors; • competitive factors that affect our pricing; • the mix of products and services we sell; • the hiring and retention of key personnel; • our expansion into international markets; • the timing and magnitude of our capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of our operations; • the acquisition and retention of key partners; • changes in generally accepted accounting policies, especially those related to the recognition of software revenue and the accounting for stock-based compensation; and • new government legislation or regulation. We typically receive a majority of our orders in the last month of each fiscal quarter because our customers often delay purchases of products until the end of the quarter as our sales organization and our individual sales representatives strive to meet quarterly sales targets. As a result, any delay in anticipated sales is likely to result in the deferral of the associated revenue beyond the end of a particular quarter, which would have a significant effect on our operating results for that quarter. In addition, most of our operating expenses do not vary directly with net sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if net sales for a particular quarter were below expectations, we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and, therefore, that revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may fall significantly. BECAUSE THE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCEED. If we fail to compete successfully in the highly competitive and rapidly changing business performance management and business intelligence markets, we may not be able to succeed. We face competition primarily from 8 Table of Contents business intelligence firms. We also face competition from large enterprise application software vendors, independent systems integrators, consulting firms and in-house IT departments. Because barriers to entry into the software market are relatively low, we expect to face additional competition in the future. Many of our competitors can devote significantly more resources to the development, promotion and sale of products than we can, and many of them can respond to new technologies and changes in customer preferences more quickly than we can. Further, other companies with resources greater than ours may attempt to gain market share in the customer analytics and business planning markets by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE TEMTEC INTO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. The integration of the business and operations of Temtec International B.V., which we acquired in June 2006, into our business and operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Before any acquisition, each company has its own business, culture, customers, employees and systems. After the acquisition, we must ensure that the companies operate as a combined organization using common communications systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. In order to successfully integrate Temtec, we must, among other things, successfully: • retain key Temtec personnel; • integrate, both from an engineering and a sales and marketing perspective, Temtec’s products and services into our suite of product and service offerings; • coordinate research and development efforts; • train and integrate sales forces; • integrate our business processes and systems; and • eliminate redundant costs and consolidate redundant facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate Temtec, and a failure to do so may materially impact our results of operations. WE MAY NOT SUSTAIN PROFITABILITY OR BE ABLE TO FULFILL ANY FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS. We could incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the future because of costs and expenses relating to brand development, marketing and other promotional activities, continued development of our information technology infrastructure, expansion of product offerings and development of relationships with other businesses. There can be no assurance that we will continue to achieve a profitable level of operations in the future. We believe, based upon our current business plan, that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, funds expected to be generated from operations and our available credit line should be sufficient to fund our operations as planned for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need additional funds sooner than anticipated if our performance deviates significantly from our current business plan or if there are significant changes in competitive or other market factors. If we elect to raise additional operating funds, such funds, whether from equity or debt financing or other sources, may not be available, or available on terms acceptable to us. IF WE DO NOT INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WILL BECOME OBSOLETE, AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER. The BPM and BI markets, including interactive planning, budgeting and analytics are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our products could be rendered obsolete if products based on new technologies are introduced or new industry standards emerge. 9 Table of Contents Enterprise computing environments are inherently complex. As a result, we cannot accurately estimate the life cycles of our products. New products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods, which requires us to hire and retain technically competent personnel. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in installing or implementing new products could seriously damage our business. We have, on occasion, experienced delays in the scheduled introduction of new and enhanced products and may experience similar delays in the future. Our future success depends upon our ability to enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, satisfy customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We may not successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. ATTEMPTS TO EXPAND BY MEANS OF BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS OR HARM OUR REVENUES. We have in the past, and may in the future, buy businesses, products or technologies. In the event of any future purchases, we will face additional financial and operational risks, including: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of acquired companies; • disruption in our business because of the allocation of resources to consummate these transactions and the diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • difficulty in retaining key technical and managerial personnel from acquired companies; • dilution of our stockholders, if we issue equity to fund these transactions; • assumption of increased expenses and liabilities; • our relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners may be weakened or terminated as a result of these transactions; and • additional ongoing expenses associated with write-downs of goodwill and other purchased intangible assets. WE RELY HEAVILY ON KEY PERSONNEL. We rely heavily on key personnel throughout the organization. The loss of any of our members of management, or any of our staff of sales and development professionals, could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategies. Any such loss of technical knowledge and industry expertise could negatively impact our success. Moreover, the loss of any critical employees or a group thereof, particularly to a competing organization, could cause us to lose market share, and the Applix brand could be diminished. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL CHALLENGES THAT WE ENCOUNTER IN OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Due to the Company’s significant international operations, we face a number of additional challenges associated with the conduct of business overseas. For example: • we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally-dispersed business; • fluctuations in exchange rates may negatively affect our operating results; • we may not be able to repatriate the earnings of our foreign operations; • we have to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws; • we may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks overseas due to the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; • reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world could negatively impact the operating results of our foreign operations; • export controls could prevent us from shipping our products into and from some markets; 10 Table of Contents • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures could significantly reduce the financial performance of our foreign operations; • changes in import/export duties and quotas could affect the competitive pricing of our products and services and reduce our market share in some countries; and • economic or political instability in some international markets could result in the forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets. BECAUSE WE DEPEND IN PART ON THIRD-PARTY SYSTEMS INTEGRATORS TO PROMOTE, SELL AND IMPLEMENT OUR PRODUCTS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL LIKELY SUFFER IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN THESE RELATIONSHIPS. We rely in part on systems integrators to promote, sell and implement our solutions. If we fail to maintain and develop relationships with systems integrators, our operating results will likely suffer. In addition, if we are unable to rely on systems integrators to install and implement our products, we will likely have to provide these services ourselves, resulting in increased costs. As a result, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, systems integrators may develop, market or recommend products that compete with our products. Further, if these systems integrators fail to implement our products successfully, our reputation may be harmed. BECAUSE THE SALES CYCLE FOR OUR PRODUCTS CAN BE LENGTHY, IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO PREDICT WHEN OR WHETHER A SALE WILL BE MADE. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict in large part due to the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products. Companies often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, companies tend to take significant time and effort evaluating our products. The amount of time and effort depends in part on the size and the complexity of the deployment. This evaluation process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to six months. During this time we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management efforts. We do not recoup these investments if the prospective customer does not ultimately license our product. OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR TRADEMARKS FROM MISUSE BY THIRD PARTIES. Our collection of trademarks is important to our business. The protective steps we take or have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. We have filed applications for registration of some of our trademarks in the United States. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. Failure to protect our trademark rights adequately could damage our brand identity and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT MAY BE COSTLY TO CORRECT, DELAY MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND EXPOSE US TO LITIGATION. Despite testing by Applix and our customers, errors may be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital to eliminate them and yet may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner or at all. Errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of our products. In addition, failures in our products could cause system failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. Although our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. These claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time-consuming to defend. 11 Table of Contents OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY HIGHER THAN EXPECTED TAX RATES OR EXPOSURE TO ADDITIONAL INCOME TAX LIABILITIES. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. Applix is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Applix’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the distribution of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, and in tax laws, which could adversely affect profitability. Further, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on Applix’s ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 