Item 1A. Risk Factors” of 10-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CORPORATE OVERVIEW We were formerly known as Valentis, Inc. and were formed as the result of the merger of Megabios Corp. and GeneMedicine, Inc. in March 1999. We were incorporated in Delaware on August 12, 1997. In August 1999, we acquired U.K.-based PolyMASC Pharmaceuticals plc. On October 5, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as subsequently amended (the “Merger”) with Urigen N.A., Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Urigen N.A.”), and Valentis Holdings, Inc., our newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary (“Valentis Holdings”). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, on July 13, 2007, Valentis Holdings was merged with and into Urigen N.A., Inc. with Urigen N.A., Inc. surviving as our wholly-owned subsidiary. In connection with the Merger, each Urigen stockholder received, in exchange for each share of Urigen N.A. common stock held by such stockholder immediately prior to the closing of the Merger, 2.2554 shares of our common stock. At the effective time of the Merger, each share of Urigen N.A Series B preferred stock was exchanged for 11.277 shares of our common stock. An aggregate of 51,226,679 shares of our common stock were issued to the Urigen N.A. stockholders. Upon completion of the Merger, we changed our name from Valentis, Inc. to Urigen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company"). From and after the Merger, our business is conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary Urigen N.A. The discussion of our business in this annual report is that of our current business which is conducted through Urigen N.A. We are located in Burlingame, California, where our headquarters and business operations are located. 3 BUSINESS OVERVIEW We specialize in the development of innovative products for patients with urological ailments including, specifically, the development of innovative products for amelioration Painful Bladder Syndrome/Interstitial Cystitis (“PBS” or “PBS/IC”), Urethritis, Nocturia and Overactive Bladder (“OAB”). Urology represents a specialty pharmaceutical market of approximately 12,000 physicians in North America. Urologists treat a variety of ailments of the urinary tract including urinary tract infections, bladder cancer, overactive bladder, urgency and incontinence and interstitial cystitis, a subset of PBS. Many of these indications represent significant, underserved therapeutic market opportunities. Over the next several years a number of key demographic and technological factors should accelerate growth in the market for medical therapies to treat urological disorders, particularly in our product categories. These factors include the following: · Aging population. The incidence of urological disorders increases with age. The over-40 age group in the United States is growing almost twice as fast as the overall population. Accordingly, the number of individuals developing urological disorders is expected to increase significantly as the population ages and as life expectancy continues to rise. · Increased consumer awareness. In recent years, the publicity associated with new technological advances and new drug therapies has increased the number of patients visiting their urologists to seek treatment for urological disorders. Urigen’s two clinical stage products target significant unmet medical needs with meaningful market opportunities in urology: · URG101, a bladder instillation for Painful Bladder Syndrome/Interstitial Cystitis (PBS/IC) · URG301, a female urethral suppository for urethritis and nocturia URG101 targets Painful Bladder Syndrome/Interstitial Cystitis (“PBS” or “PBS/IC”) which affects approximately 10.5 million men and women in North America. URG101 is a unique, proprietary combination therapy of components that is locally delivered to the bladder for rapid relief of pain and urgency as demonstrated in Urigen’s positive Phase II Pharmacodynamic Crossover study. URG301 targets urethritis and nocturia, typically seen in overactive bladder patients. URG301 is a proprietary dosage form of an approved drug that is locally delivered to the female urethra. Urethritis pain commonly occurs with urinary tract infections (UTIs) which cause more than 8 million visits to the doctor annually. Nocturia, or nighttime urgency and frequency, is secondary to overactive bladder and can severely impact quality of life by disrupting the normal sleep pattern. The novel urethral suppository platform presents excellent opportunities for effective product lifecycle management. As market penetration of URG301 deepens, line extensions will be available through alternate generic drugs as well as new chemical entities. To further expand the pipeline, the Company will identify and prioritize both marketed and development-stage products for acquisition. The commercial opportunity for such candidates will benefit significantly from the synergy provided by URG101 and URG301 in the urology marketplace. We plan to market our products to urologists and urogynecologists in the United States via a specialty sales force managed internally. As appropriate, our specialty sales force will be augmented by co-promotion and licensing agreements with pharmaceutical companies that have the infrastructure to market our products to general practitioners. In all other countries, we plan to license marketing and distribution rights to our products to pharmaceutical companies with strategic interests in urology and gynecology. 4 POTENTIAL PRODUCTS, TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES Following is a description of our products currently in development, the anticipated market for such products as well as the competitive environment in these markets. Proprietary Product Candidates: URG101 Market Opportunity for Treatment of Painful Bladder Syndrome Presently, no approved products exist for treating PBS, and those that have been approved for interstitial cystitis, a subset of PBS, are based on clinical studies which have shown the drugs to be marginally effective. According to its website, the FDA has approved two drugs for the treatment of interstitial cystitis and neither is labeled as providing immediate system relief. For example, at three months, the oral drug Elmiron achieved a therapeutic benefit in only 38% of patients on active drug versus 18% on placebo. The other drug approved for interstitial cystitis, RIMSO®-50 is an intravesical treatment that was not based on double-blind clinical trial results. According to the Interstitial Cystitis Data Base Study Experience published in the year 2000, RIMSO®-50 is widely recognized as ineffective and not included among the top ten most common physician-prescribed treatments for urinary symptoms. Consequently, there remains a significant need for new therapeutic interventions such as URG101 that can address the underlying disease process while also providing acute symptom relief. PBS is a chronic disease characterized by moderate to severe pelvic pain, urgency, urinary frequency, dyspareunia (painful intercourse) with symptoms originating from the bladder. Current epidemiology data shows that PBS may be much more prevalent than previously thought. One theory of PBS’s pathological cause implicates a dysfunction of the bladder epithelium surface called the urothelium. Normally, the urothelium is covered with a mucus layer, the glycosaminoglycan, or GAG, layer, which is thought to protect the bladder from urinary toxins. A deficiency in the GAG layer would allow these toxins to penetrate into the bladder wall activating pain sensing nerves and causing bladder muscle spasms. These spasms trigger responses to urinate resulting in the symptoms of pelvic pain, urgency and frequency, the constellation of symptoms associated with this disease. Once established, PBS can be a chronic disease, which can persist throughout life and can have a devastating impact on quality of life. We have estimated that the prevalence of PBS in North America to be 10.5 million, of which 3.8 million would experience severe enough symptoms to be classified as having interstitial cystitis, a subset of PBS. This estimate was based on studies conducted by Clemens and colleagues at Northwestern University and by Drs. Matt T. Rosenberg and Matthew Hazzard at the Mid-Michigan Health Centers. Each group independently concluded that the number of subjects with interstitial cystitis has been significantly underestimated. They evaluated over 1,000 female primary care patients over the course of a year using a pain, urgency/frequency questionnaire to categorize subjects as symptomatic or not. We calculated the North America PBS population based on a cutoff score of 13 on the pain, urgency/frequency scale, and assumed a ratio of 1:2 for men to women; and for interstitial cystitis population we used a more stringent cutoff score of 15. 5 Product Development We have licensed the URG101 technology from the University of California, San Diego. The license agreement is exclusive with regard to patent rights and non-exclusive with regard to the written technical information. We may also grant a sublicense to third parties. Pursuant to the license agreement, which was effective as of January 18, 2006, we were required to pay a license issue fee in the form of 7.5% of Urigen N.A. authorized common stock, and we are required to pay (i) license maintenance fees of $15,000 per year, (ii) milestone payments of up to $625,000 upon the occurrence of certain events related to FDA approval, (iii) an earned royalty fee equal to 1.5% to 3.0% of net sales, (iv) sublicense fee, if applicable, and (v) beginning in the year of any commercial sales, a minimum annual royalty fee of $35,000. The term of the license agreement ends on the earlier of the expiration date of the longest-lived of the patent rights or the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale. Either party may terminate the license agreement for cause in the event that the other party commits a material breach and fails to cure such breach. In addition, we may terminate the license agreement at any time and for any reason upon a 90-day written notice. In the event that any licensed product becomes the subject of a third-party claim, we have the right to conduct the defense at our own expense, and may contest or settle claims in our sole discretion; provided, however, that we may not agree to any settlement that would invalidate any valid claim of the patent rights or impose any ongoing obligation on the university. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we must indemnify the university against any and all claims resulting or arising out of the exercise of the license or any sublicense, including product liability. In addition, upon the occurrence of a sale of a licensed product, application for regulatory approval or initiation of human clinical trials, we must obtain and maintain comprehensive and commercial general liability insurance. The individual components of this combination therapy, lidocaine and heparin, were originally approved as a local anesthetic and an anti-coagulant, respectively. It was demonstrated that a proprietary formulation of these components reduced symptoms of pelvic pain and urgency upon instillation into the bladder. The rationale for this combination therapy is two-fold. The lidocaine is a local anesthetic that reduces the sensations of pain, urge and muscle spasms. The heparin, a glycosaminoglycan, coats the bladder wall augmenting natural heparinoids, which may be deficient on the surface of the urothelium. Heparin is not being utilized in this application for its anti-coagulant properties. Heparinoids comprise part of the mucus layer of the urothelium and help to limit urinary toxins from penetrating the underlying tissues thereby preventing pain, tissue inflammation and muscle spasms. Clinical Trial Status Urigen filed an investigational new drug application (“IND”) in 2005 and has undertaken two (2) clinical studies to date: URG101-101 and URG101-104. The results of the most recent study, URG101-104, have been announced with primary and secondary endpoints all achieving statistical significance. The URG101-104 study was designed using lessons learned from the URG101-101 study which did not achieve statistical significance on the primary endpoint at 3 weeks, but did demonstrate that the URG101 product was safe and resulted in an acute reduction in urgency (P=0.006) and trend towards reduction in bladder pain (P=0.093). The URG101-104 study was a pharmacodynamic crossover study to evaluate the time course of response to URG101 drug and placebo in subjects experiencing acute symptoms of painful bladder syndrome/interstitial cystitis. In March 2008 an un-blinded interim analysis was conducted. Primary and secondary efficacy measurements in the study demonstrated that URG101 was significantly better than placebo. Top line data analysis findings include: primary endpoint - improvement in average daytime pain (p=0.03); secondary endpoints - improvement in daytime urgency (p=0.03), total symptom score (p=0.03), improved overall symptom relief as measured by PORIS (p=0.01). Competitive Landscape PBS is currently an underserved medical market. There is no acute treatment for pain of bladder origin other than narcotics. Currently, there are two approved therapeutics, RIMSO®-50 and Elmiron®, for the treatment of interstitial cystitis. Both of these approved products require chronic administration before any benefit is achieved. Other non-approved therapies provide marginal, if any benefit. Development of drugs for PBS/IC has targeted a wide array of potential causes with limited success. We believe that URG101 will be well positioned, as it will address both the acute pain the patient experiences and the dysfunctional aspect of the urothelium of the bladder wall. 6 Commercialization Plan Remaining a virtual company, Urigen will commercialize URG101 in the United States by collaborating with appropriate vendors to conduct a situational analysis of the United States; develop an appropriate product strategy; and then, create and implement a launch plan that includes the establishment of a 75 to 100 member sales organization that Urigen will have the option to acquire post the successful launch of URG101. As appropriate, co-promotional agreements will be established with interested parties to ensure that URG101 is adequately promoted to the entire U.S. healthcare community. In all countries outside the United States, Urigen will either assign licensing rights to or establish Supply and Distribution Agreements with interested parties. Initial discussions to acquire such rights have begun with interested parties who have a strategic interest in Urology and Painful Bladder Syndrome, and have the requisite infrastructure and resources to successfully commercialize URG101. Manufacturing of URG101 finished goods kits will be conducted by contract manufacturers approved by regulatory authorities and with a history of having demonstrated an ability to support a global supply chain demand. Negotiations with such manufacturers are in progress to establish requisite manufacturing and supply agreements. URG301 Market Opportunity for Treatment of Urethritis and Nocturia A significant percentage of female patients presenting with Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) and Painful Bladder Syndrome have a substantial urethral component to their disease. There are approximately 8 million doctor visits annually for urinary tract infections alone. The severity of their urethral pain and discomfort may compromise the administration of intravesical therapies while the antibiotics used to treat their UTI do not address their urethral pain. To overcome this problem, Urigen is developing a urethral suppository to resolve this pain and discomfort. Nocturia, frequent nighttime urination, is a symptom of an underlying condition or disease, such as PBS. A poll conducted by the National Sleep Foundation in 2003 reported that nearly two-thirds of adults between the ages of 55 and 84 suffered from nocturia. The International Continence Society defines nocturia as two or more night time voids. In its simplest terms, nocturia refers to urination at night and entails some degree of impairment, with urinary frequency often considered excessive and disruptive. Patients with severe nocturia may get up five or more times per night to go to the bathroom to void. Preliminary work, by Kalium, Inc., from which we licensed the product, has been conducted to test a variety of generally recognized as safe (“GRAS”) approved carriers and therapeutic agents as well as to optimize melt times for the suppository. Additionally, patients with urethritis were offered the use of a suppository that contained lidocaine and heparin for the treatment of their symptoms of urethral pain and inflammation. An optimized formulation has been tested in an open-label clinical trial. This study was undertaken to determine the proportion of urethral symptoms by 50% or more in patients with urethritis. Results were evaluated 15 minutes after administration of the suppository using the patient overall rating of improvement of symptoms (“PORIS”) scale. The result of this pilot Phase II (open label) study in approximately 30 patients demonstrated a 50% or greater improvement in 83% of patients experiencing pain and 84% of patients experiencing urgency related to urethritis following a single treatment. Importantly, 50% of patients had complete resolution of pain and 63% had complete resolution of urgency. Duration of relief following a single treatment was greater than 12 hours in approximately 30% of subjects. This testing was not performed as a formal clinical trial, but under physician care and information provided to us from Kalium, Inc. Clinical development of URG301 will be similar to that of lidocaine jelly which is approved for urethritis. The licensed patents cover a range of active ingredients that can be formulated in the suppository to create a desired therapeutic effect. Such agent may include antibiotics, antimicrobials, antifungals, analgesics, anesthetics, steroidal anti-inflammatories, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, mucous production inhibitors, hormones and antispasmodics. 7 Market Opportunity for Treatment of Overactive Bladder (“OAB”) According to an article published by the Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research, overactive bladder is a fairly common malady as approximately 17 million individuals in the United States and more than 100 million worldwide are afflicted. Importantly, the condition worsens as people age. Although not life-threatening, for the individual overactive bladder is inconvenient, potentially embarrassing, and may disrupt sleep; while significantly impacting quality of life. Frequently these individuals are afraid to leave their home, or are unable to participate in a lengthy meeting, dinner, or social event. Unfortunately, many of these people hesitate to seek treatment because they think their symptoms are a normal part of aging. This mindset is incorrect as overactive bladder is not normal, is treatable, and treatment can significantly ease symptoms and improve quality of life. Patient compliance studies report that more than half of patients taking an oral OAB drug stop taking it within six months of initiation of therapy. Such studies also report that only 10 to 20 percent of people remain on an oral OAB medicine six to 12 months after initiating treatment. About a third to one-half of those who discontinue their drug therapy do so due to side effects, they simply can not tolerate the drug or do not find the minimal benefit they receive to outweigh the negative effects of the drug. Manufacturers of these overactive bladder therapies have expended significant research energy and money in their efforts to reduce side effects to increase patients’ adherence to treatment. However, some physicians, experts and healthcare providers do not believe that the marginal benefits of these oral agents outweigh the significant side effects endured by patients prescribed such drugs. Importantly, given these efficacy and side effect limitations, the overactive bladder market has experienced significant and constant double digit annual growth. According to sales data provided by the four largest U.S. pharmaceutical companies in their annual reports, we estimate that in the five year period 2000 through 2004, sales of OAB drugs in the United States grew from $636 million to more than $1.3 billion, and year over year percentage increases for this five year period were 40%, 25%, 18%, and 13%, respectively. Product Development We are developing an IND to initiate an exploratory study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an intraurethral suppository to treat urethritis, nocturia and the symptoms of acute urinary urgency associated with overactive bladder. The study will enroll subjects randomized to drug vs. placebo in a 1:1 ratio to evaluate the safety and efficacy of URG301 for one or more of these disorders. Commercialization Plan We will commercialize URG301 in the United States by conducting a situational analysis of the United States; developing an appropriate product strategy; and then, creating and implementing a launch plan that incorporates the 75 to 100 member sales organization that we are planning to establish for the launch of URG101. As appropriate, co-promotional agreements will be established with interested parties to ensure that URG301 is adequately promoted to the entire U.S. healthcare community. In all countries outside the United States, Urigen will either assign licensing rights to or establish Supply and Distribution Agreements with interested parties. Discussions to acquire such rights will be scheduled with interested pharmaceutical companies who have a strategic interest in Incontinence and Overactive Bladder, and have the requisite infrastructure and resources to successfully commercialize URG301. 8 Competitive Landscape Approved prescription drugs used to treat overactive bladder are not optimally effective and have side effects that can limit their use. These approved drugs—oxybutynin (Ditropan®, Ditropan XL® and Oxytrol®, a skin patch); tolterodine (Detrol®, Detrol LA®); trospium (Sanctura®); solifenacin (Vesicare®); and darifenacin (Enablex®)—demonstrate remarkably similar efficacy. However, they do differ in the side effects they cause and their cost. Side effects include dry mouth, constipation, and mental confusion. In clinical studies, Ditropan XL, Detrol LA, Oxytrol, Sanctura, Vesicare, and Enablex have caused fewer side effects than the short acting dosage forms of oxybutynin (Ditropan) and tolterodine (Detrol). Oxybutynin has been available since 1976 and tolterodine since 1998. The short-acting form of oxybutynin is available as a less expensive generic drug while the extended-release formulations of both oxybutynin and tolterodine are available, but not as generics. An oxybutynin patch (Oxytrol) was launched in 2003 while solifenacin and darifenacin were introduced in 2004. Retail prices for these products vary considerably and are tied directly to the number of pills taken per day and whether or not the product is available generically. The least expensive is generic oxybutynin 5mg with an average monthly cost of $20 compared to Ditropan 5mg at $79 and Ditropan XL 5mg costing $122 per month on average. The average monthly cost for Detrol is $138; Detrol LA $119; Sanctura $116; Vesicare $121; and Enablex $116. (Prices from May 2006 Wolters Kluwer Health, Pharmaceutical Audit Suite). CORPORATE COLLABORATIONS We retained Navigant Consulting, Inc. to conduct a situational assessment of physicians, healthcare payers and patient advocacy groups to generate a product strategy that addressed key geographical markets, customers, product positioning, lifecycle management and pricing. The project cost of this first phase was $125,000, of which $86,000 had been paid through June 30, 2008. Life Science Strategy Group LLC (LSSG) has been retained to create and implement a commercialization plan specific for us in the United States. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, LSSG will bill us for all professional services at established hourly rates, plus related out-of-pocket expenses. Payment of invoices is not contingent upon results. LSSG may terminate the agreement if payment of fees is not made within 45 days of receipt of the invoice. There is no definitive termination date of the agreement, but the estimated timing for all of the projects ranges from 30 to 42 months. As appropriate, co-promotional agreements will be established with interested parties to ensure that URG101 is adequately promoted to the entire United States healthcare community. As of June 30, 2008 LSSG has invoiced the Company $28,000. $3,000 was paid in cash. LSSG principals have agreed to accept 147,059 shares of subscribed common stock at $0.17 per share in lieu of the remaining $25,000. We also have two license agreements pursuant to which we license certain patent rights and technologies: In January 2006, Urigen N.A. entered into an asset-based transaction agreement with a related party, Urigen, Inc. Simultaneously, Urigen N.A. entered into a license agreement with the University of California, San Diego, or UCSD, for certain patent rights. In exchange for this license, Urigen N.A. issued 1,846,400 common shares and is required to make annual maintenance payments of $15,000 and milestone payments of up to $625,000, which are based on certain events related to FDA approval. As of June 30, 2008, $25,000 of milestone payments has been incurred. Urigen is also required to make royalty payments of 1.5-3.0% of net sales of licensed products, with a minimum annual royalty of $35,000. The term of the agreement ends on the earlier of the expiration of the longest-lived of the patents rights or the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale. Either party may terminate the license agreement for cause in the event that the other party commits a material breach and fails to cure such breach. In addition, Urigen may terminate the license agreement at any time and for any reason upon a 90-day written notice. 9 Pursuant to our license agreement with Kalium, Inc., made as of May 12, 2006, the Company and our affiliates have an exclusive license to the patent rights and technologies, and the right to sublicense to third parties. As partial consideration for the rights under the license agreement and as a license fee, Urigen N.A., Inc. was required to issue 1,623,910 shares of our common stock. We are required to pay royalties ranging from 2.0% to 4.5% of net sales, and milestone payments of up to $457,500 upon the occurrence of certain events related to FDA approval, and any applicable sublicense payments in an amount equal to 22.5% of fees received for any sublicense. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we must indemnify Kalium against any and all liabilities or damages arising out of the development or use of the licensed products or technology, the use by third parties of licensed products or technology, or any representations or warranty by us. In the event that any licensed product becomes the subject of a third-party claim, we have the right to conduct the defense at our own expense, and may settle claims in our sole discretion; provided, however, that Kalium must cooperate with us. The term of the license agreement ends on the earlier of the expiration date of the last to expire of any patent or the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale. The license agreement may be terminated by either party if the other party fails to substantially perform or otherwise materially breaches any material terms or covenants of the agreement, and such failure or breach is not cured within 30 days of notice thereof. In addition, Kalium may terminate the agreement or convert the license to non-exclusive rights if we fail to meet certain milestones over the next three years. On October 3, 2007, the Company retained Dennis Giesing, Ph.D. as Chief Scientific Officer of the Company for a term of four years. Prior to this, Dr. Giesing performed consulting services for the Company for one day per calendar week, at an agreed upon fee of $4,000 per month. In countries outside of the United States, we anticipate we will either assign licensing rights to or establish supply and distribution agreements with interested parties. Initial discussions to acquire such rights have begun with interested parties who have a strategic interest in urology and painful bladder syndrome and have the requisite infrastructure and resources to successfully commercialize URG101. Like many companies our size, we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organizations (“CROs”) that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. Third parties that we use, and have used in the past, to support clinical trials include Clinimetrics, Research Canada, Inc., EMB Statistical Solutions, LLC (“EMB”), and Hyaluron. Inc. (“HCM”). Pursuant to a purchase order dated September 2007, HCM has provided us with services related to documentation and drug development. Various services were provided by the other vendors listed. We intend to continue to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for all of our pre-clinical and clinical studies. 10 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We have multiple intellectual property filings around our products. In general, we plan to file for broad patent protection in all markets where we intend to commercialize our products. Typically, we will file our patents first in the United States or Canada and expand the applications internationally under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT. Currently, we own or have licensed three (3) issued patents and three (3) patent applications. Based on these filings, we anticipate that our lead product URG101, may be protected until at least 2026 and our URG300 urethral suppository platform including URG301 will be protected until at least 2018 and potentially beyond 2025. Summary of our Patents and Patent Applications for URG101 and URG301 Product Development: 1) (URG101) We have licensed U.S. Patent 7,414,039 entitled “Novel Interstitial Therapy for Immediate Symptom Relief and Chronic Therapy in Interstitial Cystitis” from the University of California San Diego. The patent claims treatment formulations and methods for reducing the symptoms of urinary frequency, urgency and/or pelvic pain, including interstitial cystitis. 2) (URG101) We have filed PCT Application PCT/US2006/019745 entitled “Kits and Improved Compositions for Treating Lower Urinary Tract Disorders: Formulations for Treating Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms: which is directed to superior buffered formulations and kits for treating lower urinary tract symptoms and disorders. 3) (URG301) We have licensed U.S. Patent No. 6,464,670 entitled “Method of Delivering Therapeutic Agents to the Urethra and an Urethral Suppository” from Kalium, Inc. The patent describes a meltable suppository having a “baseball bat” shape for the administration of therapeutic agents to the urethra. This shape is suited for the female urethra. 4) (URG301) We have licensed U.S. Patent No. 7,267,670 entitled “Reinforced Urethral Suppository” from Kalium, Inc. This application covers the mechanical structure of a reinforced suppository that can be used to deliver a range of therapeutic agents to the urethra. 5) (URG301) We have licensed U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 11/475809, entitled “Transluminal Drug Delivery Methods and Devices” from Kalium, Inc. The application is directed to a urethral suppository that includes a carrier base, an anesthetic, a buffering agent, and, optionally a polysaccharide. 6) (URG301) We have filed PCT Application 60/891,454 entitled "Urethral Suppositories for Overactive Bladder" which is directed to the use of mixed-activity anti-cholinergic agents to treat the symptoms of overactive bladder. Our failure to obtain patent protection or otherwise protect our proprietary technology or proposed products may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. The patent application process takes several years and entails considerable expense. There is no assurance that additional patents will issue from these applications or, if patents do issue, that the claims allowed will be sufficient to protect our technology. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Furthermore, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents is unpredictable. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of such patent applications. Competitors may have filed applications for, or may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to compounds, products or processes that block or compete with ours. We are aware of patent applications filed and patents issued to third parties relating to urological drugs, urological delivery technologies and urological therapeutics, and there can be no assurance that any of those patent applications or patents will not have a material adverse effect on potential products we or our corporate partners are developing or may seek to develop in the future. 11 Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry. Litigation may be necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned or licensed by us, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties. Although no third party has asserted that we are infringing such third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property, there can be no assurance that litigation asserting such claims will not be initiated, that we would prevail in any such litigation or that we would be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. Any such claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, can be time-consuming and expensive to defend or prosecute and to resolve. If other companies prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention which could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable to us. There can be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology to the public or that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary technology. We typically require our employees, consultants, collaborators, advisors and corporate partners to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of employment or other relationships with us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information, that the parties to such agreements will not breach such agreements or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be discovered independently by our competitors. GOVERNMENT REGULATION The production and marketing of any of our potential products will be subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to rigorous regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). We believe that the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory bodies will regulate the commercial uses of our potential products as drugs. Drugs are regulated under certain provisions of the Public Health Service Act and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. These laws and the related regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, and the promotion, marketing and distribution of drug products. At the FDA, the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research is responsible for the regulation of drug products. The necessary steps to take before a new drug may be marketed in the United States include the following: (i) laboratory tests and animal studies; (ii) the submission to the FDA of an IND for clinical testing, which must become effective before clinical trials commence; (iii) under certain circumstances, approval by a special advisory committee convened to review clinical trial protocols involving drug therapeutics; (iv) adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product; (v) the submission to the FDA of a new drug application (“NDA”); and (vi) FDA approval of the new drug application prior to any commercial sale or shipment of the drug. Facilities used for the manufacture of drugs are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other authorities, where applicable, and must comply with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”), regulations. Manufacturers of drugs also must comply with the FDA’s general drug product standards and may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with GMP or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in withdrawal of marketing approval, criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, warning letters, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of clinical trials, FDA refusal to review pending marketing approval applications or supplements to approved applications, or injunctions, as well as other legal or regulatory action against us or our corporate partners. Clinical trials are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase I (the initial introduction of the product into human subjects or patients), the drug is tested to assess safety, metabolism, pharmacokinetics and pharmacological actions associated with increasing doses. Phase II usually involves studies in a limited patient population to (i) determine the efficacy of the potential product for specific, targeted indications, (ii) determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and (iii) further identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound is found to be effective and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase II evaluations, Phase III trials are undertaken to further evaluate clinical efficacy and test for safety within a broader patient population at geographically dispersed clinical sites. There can be no assurance that Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing will be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our or our corporate partners’ potential products subject to such testing. In addition, after marketing approval is granted, the FDA may require post-marketing clinical studies that typically entail extensive patient monitoring and may result in restricted marketing of the product for an extended period of time. 12 The results of product development, preclinical animal studies, and human studies are submitted to the FDA as part of the NDA. The NDA must also contain extensive manufacturing information, and each manufacturing facility must be inspected and approved by the FDA before the NDA will be approved. Similar regulatory approval requirements exist for the marketing of drug products outside the United States (e.g., Europe and Japan). The testing and approval process is likely to require substantial time, effort and financial and human resources, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that any potential product developed by us and/or our corporate partners will prove safe and effective in clinical trials or will meet all the applicable regulatory requirements necessary to receive marketing approval from the FDA or the comparable regulatory body of other countries. Data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are subject to interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may deny the NDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require additional testing or information, or require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a biological product candidate is granted, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Finally, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Among the conditions for NDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the appropriate GMP regulations, which must be followed at all times. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, financial resources and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance. For clinical investigation and marketing outside the United States, we and our corporate partners may be subject to FDA as well as regulatory requirements of other countries. The FDA regulates the export of drug products, whether for clinical investigation or commercial sale. In Europe, the approval process for the commencement of clinical trials varies from country to country. The regulatory approval process in other countries includes requirements similar to those associated with FDA approval set forth above. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. GENERAL COMPETITION WITHIN THE UROLOGICAL THERAPEUTIC INDUSTRY Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Several pharmaceutical companies are also actively engaged in the development of therapies for the treatment of PBS and overactive bladder. Such competitors may develop safer, more effective or less costly urological therapeutics. We face competition from such companies, in establishing corporate collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, relationships with academic and research institutions and in negotiating licenses to proprietary technology, including intellectual property. Many competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, managerial and human resources than we do. There is no assurance that research and development by such competitors will not render our potential products and technologies, or the potential products and technologies developed by our corporate partners, obsolete or non-competitive, or that any potential product and technologies us or our corporate partners develop would be preferred to any existing or newly developed products and technologies. In addition, there is no assurance that competitors will not develop safer, more effective or less costly PBS therapies, achieve superior patent protection or obtain regulatory approval or product commercialization earlier than us or our corporate partners, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE The manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We currently have only limited product liability insurance, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain existing or obtain additional product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit our business. A product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. EMPLOYEES We currently employ six individuals full-time, including three who hold doctoral degrees. Current employees are engaged in product development, marketing, finance and administrative activities, including assessing strategic opportunities that may be available to us. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors outline certain risks and uncertainties concerning future results and should be read in conjunction with the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or those we currently deem immaterial, may also materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from Burr, Pilger & Mayer LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, which includes an explanatory paragraph stating that the financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our recurring operating losses and need for additional financing have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In connection with the audit of our June 30, 2008 financial statements our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have identified additional material weaknesses in the course of our management assessment of internal controls. We have been informed that during the course of our audit that our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting suffer from certain “material weaknesses” as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. We intend to commence a process of developing, adopting and implementing policies and procedures to address such material weaknesses that are consistent with those of small, public companies. However, that process may be time consuming and costly and there is no assurance as to when we will effectively address such material weaknesses. We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have engaged in research and development activities since our inception. We incurred losses from operations of approximately $4.8 million, and $3.3 million, for our fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit totaling approximately $9.6 million. Our products are in the development stage and, accordingly, our business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any products. Our net operating losses over the near-term and the next several years are expected to continue as a result of the further clinical trial activity and preparation for regulatory submission necessary to support regulatory approval of our products. Costs associated with Phase III clinical trials are generally substantially greater than Phase II clinical trials, as the number of clinical sites and patients required is much larger. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded research, development, and clinical trial activities. Our potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake will be successful. All of our potential products will require extensive additional research and development prior to any commercial introduction. There can be no assurance that any future research and development and clinical trial efforts will result in viable products. We do not yet have the required clinical data and results to successfully market our forerunner product, URG101, or any other potential product in any jurisdiction, and future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow us to successfully market any of our product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. 14 We are subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect our business. The production and marketing of our potential products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. All of the products we are currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, harder and more costly to bring our potential products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our potential products will be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we or our business partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of our potential products may also adversely affect our business. Such rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of our current potential products for different applications. In addition, we may not receive FDA approval to export our potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Manufacturing facilities for our products will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent we decide to manufacture our own products, a governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of our potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility. If we decide to outsource the commercial production of our products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance of the manufacturer could hinder our ability to bring our products to market. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to medical products. It is possible that the FDA or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations which would further reduce or restrict the sales of our potential products. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our potential and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for these products. We rely on third parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. Like many companies our size, we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organization, or CROs that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. Third parties that we use, and have used in the past, to support clinical development include Clinimetrics Research Canada, Inc., Cardinal Health PTS, LLC, Hyaluron, Inc. and EMB Statistical Solutions, LLC. We intend to continue to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for all of our pre-clinical and clinical studies. 15 Our reliance on these third parties for development activities reduces our control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; · obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates; · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and · recruiting participants for a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: · failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; · inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; or · lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Our failure to enroll participants in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than we may project for any of our product candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to discontinue from the trial. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if we or they believe the participants in such clinical trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. 16 We rely on third parties to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in our clinical trials and future commercial operations and an interruption to this service may harm our business. We rely on various third parties to manufacture the materials we use in our clinical trials and future commercial operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, qualify and obtain prior regulatory approval for additional sources of clinical materials. If interruptions in this supply, as evidenced by the heparin recall in 2008, should occur for any reason, including a decision by the third parties to discontinue manufacturing, technical difficulties, labor disputes or a failure of the third parties to follow regulations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals to successfully commercialize our investigational product candidates. We have contracted with a third party vendor to develop the individual vials contained in our URG101 kit. This vendor will be our sole-source of clinical supplies for URG101. There can be no assurance that the final vial formulations will result in sufficient safety and efficacy for approval. A failure on the stability or manufacturability of our individual vial formulations or the inability of this vendor to carry out its contractual duties or meet expected timelines could cause our URG101 clinical studies to be delayed which may have a material adverse impact on our development plan, stock price and financial condition. We do not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. If we are successful in achieving regulatory approval and developing the markets for our potential products, we would have to arrange for the scaled-up manufacture of our products. At the present time, we have not arranged for the large-scale manufacture of our products. There can be no assurance that we will, on a timely basis, be able to make the transition from manufacturing clinical trial quantities to commercial production quantities successfully or be able to arrange for contract manufacturing. We believe one or more contractors will be able to manufacture our products for initial commercialization if the products obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals. Potential difficulties in manufacturing our products, including scale-up, recalls or safety alerts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, we may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for our products quickly if we or our contract manufacturer(s) are unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to enter into definitive and perhaps additional arrangements with contract manufacturing companies in order to secure the production of our products or to attempt to improve manufacturing costs and efficiencies. If we are unable to enter into definitive agreements for manufacturing services and encounters delays or difficulties in finalizing or otherwise establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, and distribute our products, then market introduction and subsequent sales of such products would be adversely affected. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as ours, which plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, our ability to have our products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. If, for any reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to commercialize our products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement. 17 There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. If purchasers or users of our products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forgo or reduce such use. Even if our products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have very limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such effort will be successful. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products, including URG101 in North America and Europe. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Our strategy for the future research, development, and commercialization of our products is based on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our products. If our product candidates do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of our products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. If our products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, our ability to generate significant revenues from our products 18 If we are not successful in acquiring or licensing additional product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, our business may be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we may acquire or license additional product candidates for treatment of urinary tract disorders. We may not be able to identify promising urinary tract product candidates. Even if we are successful in identifying promising product candidates, we may not be able to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on URG101 and URG301 sales for our revenues. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license products or technologies to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. We may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on URG101 and URG301 sales for revenue. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If our efforts to develop new product candidates do not succeed, and product candidates that we recommend for clinical development do not actually begin clinical trials, our business will suffer. We intend to use our proprietary licenses and expertise in urethral tract disorders to develop and commercialize new products for the treatment and prevention of urological disorders. Once recommended for development, a candidate undergoes drug substance scale up, preclinical testing, including toxicology tests, and formulation development. If this work is successful, an IND, would need to be prepared, filed, and approved by the FDA and the product candidate would then be ready for human clinical testing. The process of developing new drugs and/or therapeutic products is inherently complex, time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our development programs will result in products that will receive regulatory approval and achieve market acceptance. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. In addition, product candidates may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side effects during clinical trials, may take longer to progress through clinical trials than had been anticipated, may not be able to achieve the pre-defined clinical endpoint due to statistical anomalies even though clinical benefit was achieved, may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, may prove impracticable to manufacture in commercial quantities at reasonable cost and with acceptable quality, or may fail to achieve market acceptance. To date, our development efforts have been focused on URG101 for PBS/IC. While we have experience in developing urethral suppositories, our development efforts for URG301 have just begun. There can be no assurance that we will be successful with the limited knowledge and resources we have available at the present time. All of our product candidates are in preclinical or clinical development and have not received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. An IND has been filed and is effective for URG101 for the treatment of painful bladder syndrome/interstitial cystitis, which has completed a positive Phase II clinical trial; however, an IND has not been filed for URG301. Typically, the regulatory approval process is extremely expensive, takes many years to complete and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. 19 The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: · changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the United States, in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; · a product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; · the ability of the regulatory agency to provide timely responses as a result of its resource constraints; · the manufacturing processes or facilities may not meet the applicable requirements; and · changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates or the failure to maintain regulatory approval could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability. Our potential international business would expose us to a number of risks. We anticipate that a substantial amount of future sales of our potential products will be derived from international markets. Accordingly, any failure to achieve substantial foreign sales could have a material adverse effect on our overall sales and profitability. Depreciation or devaluation of the local currencies of countries where we sell our products may result in these products becoming more expensive in local currency terms, thus reducing demand, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our ability to engage in non-United States operations and the financial results associated with any such operations also may be significantly affected by other factors, including: · foreign government regulatory authorities; · product liability, intellectual property and other claims; · export license requirements; · political or economic instability in our target markets; · trade restrictions; · changes in tax laws and tariffs; · managing foreign distributors and manufacturers; · managing foreign branch offices and staffing; and · competition. If these risks actually materialize, our anticipated sales to international customers may decrease or not be realized at all. 20 Competition in our target markets is intense, and developments by other companies could render our product candidates obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is not a static environment, and market share can change rapidly if competing products are introduced. While we believe we are in the process of developing products unique in the delivery and application for treatment of urological maladies, we face competition from Ortho-McNeil, Inc., BioNiche, Inc., Plethora Solutions Ltd., and SJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc., among others, who have either already developed or are in the process of developing products similar to ours. Further, there can be no assurance that we can avoid intense competition from other medical technology companies, pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations that might decide to develop products similar to ours. Many of these existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and/or other resources. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or cheaper to use than any that we may develop. These developments could render our products obsolete and uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products in development, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw such products. If concerns should arise about the safety of our products once developed and marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. Adverse events in the field of drug therapies may negatively impact regulatory approval or public perception of our potential products and technologies. The FDA may become more restrictive regarding the conduct of clinical trials including urological and other therapies. This approach by the FDA could lead to delays in the timelines for regulatory review, as well as potential delays in the conduct of clinical trials. In addition, negative publicity may affect patients’ willingness to participate in clinical trials. If fewer patients are willing to participate in clinical trials, the timelines for recruiting patients and conducting such trials will be delayed. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, others could compete against us more directly, which would hurt our profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks or licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection of these rights, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide sufficient protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could seriously impair our competitive position. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from marketing our products. Any future commercial success by the Company depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing on the patents and other proprietary rights of others. However, regardless of the Company’s intent, our potential products may infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation, may be obliged to enter into expensive licensing agreements, or may be prevented from pursuing product development or commercialization of our potential products or selling our products. 21 Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. In previous years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Competitors in the biotechnology industry may use intellectual property litigation against us to gain advantage. In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation, if successful, also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our potential products that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign our potential products that use the technology. We may also be required in the future to initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights to protect such rights or determine the scope or validity of our intellectual property or the rights of our competitors. The pursuit of these claims could result in significant expenditures and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not have sufficient cash and manpower resources to pursue any such claims. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we prevail in the dispute, would be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and the diversion of technical and management personnel and could require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from developing and selling our potential products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates successfully. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of the services of any principal member of our senior management, including William J. Garner, M.D., Chief Executive Officer, Martin E. Shmagin, Chief Financial Officer, Terry M. Nida, Chief Operating Officer and Dennis Giesing Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer, could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. We employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice, subject to the terms contained in their employment agreements. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies. We have established a scientific advisory board consisting of C. Lowell Parsons, M.D. who is a Professor of the Department of Urology at the University of California, San Diego, S. Grant Mulholland, M.D. who is Chair Emeritus of Urology at Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University and Christian Stief, M.D. who is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Urology at Ludwig Maximilians University in Munich, Germany. These members assist us in formulating research and development strategies. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. The failure of our scientific advisors to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, our scientific advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with our products. 22 If the results of future pre-clinical studies, clinical testing and/or clinical trials indicate that our proposed products are not safe or effective for human use, our business will suffer. Unfavorable results from future clinical testing and/or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of future clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials, even after promising results in initial-stage trials. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. In addition, failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols could result in the test or control group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. The investigational product candidates that we are currently developing may require extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our investigational product candidates, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and/or clinical trials that our investigational product candidates are safe and effective in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. Our ability to complete clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, but not limited to: ● inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in clinical trials; ● failure to receive approval by the FDA of our clinical trial protocols; ● changes in clinical trial protocols made by us or imposed by the FDA; ● the effectiveness of our investigational product candidates; ● slower than expected rate of and higher than expected cost of patient recruitment; ● inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; ● unforeseen safety issues; ● government or regulatory delays; or ● our ability to raise the necessary funds to start or complete the trials. These factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or investigational drug candidate. If we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in our clinical trials for a particular investigational product candidate, the commercial prospects for that investigational candidate will be harmed, and we may be unable to raise additional funds, generate product revenues, or revenues from that investigational candidate could be delayed. Commercial supplies of one of the active ingredients in URG101, heparin, were recalled by the manufacturer as the supply was compromised due to non-cGMP practices that resulted in such supplies failing to meet FDA approved product specifications. While the FDA has tightened the manufacturing process of heparin by requiring the use of more sensitive assays to ensure compliance with approved product specifications, such changes in and of themselves cannot guarantee uninterrupted commercial supplies in the future. 23 We may not achieve projected development goals in the time frame we announce and expect. We may set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates, and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in its clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize the combined company’s products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that the combined company will be able to adhere to its current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of our common shares could decline. We will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our operations, which financing might not be available or which, if it is available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to engage in future development and clinical testing of our potential products will require substantial additional financial resources. We currently use approximately $200,000 per month to operate our business. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: · Our financial condition; · timing and outcome of the Phase II clinical trials for URG101; · developments related to our collaboration agreements, license agreements, academic licenses and other material agreements; · our ability to establish and maintain corporate collaborations; · the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and · competing pharmacological and market developments. We may have insufficient working capital to fund our cash needs unless we are able to raise additional capital in the future. We have financed our operations to date primarily through the sale of equity securities and through corporate collaborations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to our stockholders may result. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain an adequate and timely amount of additional capital on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including our viability as an enterprise. As a result of these concerns, our management is assessing, and may pursue other strategic opportunities, including the sale of our securities or other actions. We may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and might never achieve profitability. We may never become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize additional products. We will need to conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, is expected to result in substantial increase in operating losses for at least the next several years. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 24 Our stock price is expected to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · the results of our current and any future clinical trials of our product candidates; · the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements; · the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our product candidates; · the initiation of, material developments or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; · failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; · the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our product candidates; · issues in manufacturing our product candidates or any approved products; · the loss of key employees; · the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; · future sales of our common stock; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial position, results of operations and reputation. 25 Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, our common stock is subject to trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such stock. Our common stock has been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board since June 19, 2007. Because our common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange, our shares are subject to the regulations regarding trading in “penny stocks,” which are those securities trading for less than $5.00 per share. The following is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks: · Prior to the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks. To make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser's financial condition and investment experience and objectives. Subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement. · A broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities. This agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.” A broker-dealer may not effect a purchase of a penny stock less than two business days after a broker-dealer sends such agreement to the purchaser. · The Exchange Act requires that prior to effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment. These disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors. · A dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within ten days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security. These requirements can severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these compliance activities. Because our common stock is subject to the rules and restrictions regarding penny stock transactions, an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and our ability to raise additional capital may be limited. We make no guarantee that our market-makers will make a market in our common stock, or that any market for our common stock will continue. Our stock price could be adversely affected by dispositions of our shares pursuant to registration statements currently in effect. Some of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares, which they are currently able to sell in the public market under certain registration statements currently in effect, or otherwise. Sales of a substantial number of our shares or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of June 30, 2008, we had issued and outstanding 69,669,535 shares of our common stock. This amount does not include, as of June 30, 2008: · approximately 3.8 million shares of unregistered, subscribed common stock currently issuable; · approximately 1.4 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of all of our outstanding options; · approximately 19.6 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of all of our outstanding warrants; and · approximately 1.3 million shares of restricted stock awards that have not vested. 26 These shares of common stock, if and when issued or vested, may be sold in the public market assuming the applicable registration statements continue to remain effective and subject in any case to trading restrictions to which our insiders holding such shares may be subject to from time to time. If these options or warrants are exercised and sold, our stockholders may experience additional dilution and the market price of our common stock could fall. In addition, in connection with the Merger, stockholders of Urigen N.A. may sell a significant number of shares of our common stock they received in the Merger. Such holders have had no ready market for their Urigen N.A. shares and might be eager to sell some or all of their shares. Further, Urigen N.A. recently entered into agreements with a couple of its vendors and business partners which give Urigen N.A. the right to pay certain amounts due to such vendors and business partners for goods and services with shares of its common stock in lieu of cash. Such vendors and business partners may be more inclined to sell our common stock than other investors as they have not been long-term investors of Urigen N.A. Significant sales could adversely affect the market price for our common stock for a period of time. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, include anti-takeover provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that enable our management to attempt to resist a takeover unless it is deemed by our management and board of directors to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Those provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. Our board of directors may also choose to adopt further anti-takeover measures without stockholder approval. The existence and adoption of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We may not be able to meet the initial listing standards to trade on a national securities exchange such as the Nasdaq Capital Market or the American Stock Exchange, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of the combined company’s common stock. The initial listing qualification standards for new issuers are stringent and, although we may explore various actions to meet the minimum initial listing requirements for a listing on a national securities exchange, there is no guarantee that any such actions will be successful in bringing us into compliance with such requirements. If we fail to achieve listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, our common shares may continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or other over-the-counter markets in the United States, although there can be no assurance that our common shares will be eligible for trading on any such alternative markets or exchanges in the United States. In the event that we are not able to obtain a listing on a national securities exchange or maintain our reporting on the OTC Bulletin Board or other quotation service for our common shares, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for stockholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if our common stock remains quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or other over-the-counter market, the liquidity will likely be less, and therefore the price will be more volatile, than if our common stock was listed on a national securities exchange. Stockholders may not be able to sell their common shares in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares fail to achieve listing on a national securities exchange, the price of our common shares may decline. In addition, a decline in the price of our common shares could impair our ability to achieve a national securities exchange listing or to obtain financing in the future. 27 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 