ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from Burr Pilger Mayer, Inc., our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, which includes an explanatory paragraph stating that the financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our recurring operating losses and need for additional financing have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may realize significantly less than the value at which they are carried on our financial statements, and stockholders may lose all or a portion of their investment in our common stock. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, resulting in our conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report of such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our Chairman, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of June 30, 2010. A material weakness, as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Based upon management’s assessment, we identified the following material weaknesses as of June 30, 2010: Management noted an insufficient quantity of experienced, dedicated resources involved in control activities and financial reporting. This material weakness contributed to a control environment where there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the interim and annual financial statements could occur and not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management also noted that the Company’s design and operation of controls with respect to the process of preparing and reviewing the annual and interim financial statements are ineffective. This material weakness includes failures in the design and operating effectiveness of controls which would insure (i) preparation of financial statements and disclosures on a timely basis; (ii) that all journal entries and financial disclosures are thoroughly reviewed and approved internally and documentation of this review process is retained; (iii) adequate separation of duties in the reporting process, (iv) timely reconciliation of balance sheet and expense accounts and (v) since June 2010, the Company has lacked an audit committee which affects our Board’s oversight ability. These control deficiencies could result in a material misstatement of the financial statements due to the significance of the financial closing and reporting process to the preparation of reliable financial statements. We are implementing remediation steps to eliminate identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, including the following: A new external consultant was hired in 2011 to assist Management with its assessment of the weaknesses in internal control and to assist in implementing corrective actions. The consultant has prior experience working with small companies and maximizing internal controls to the extent possible in a small company environment. Management believes it will be able to make certain improvements in the following areas: (1) the preparation of timely and accurate financial statements and disclosures; (2) the preparation and review of journal entries and financial disclosures; and (3) timely reconciliation of balance sheet and expense accounts. However, Management has also determined that to have adequate separation of duties in the reporting process, the Company would need to hire an additional employee. Therefore, until sufficient funds are raised by the Company, certain weaknesses with respect to segregation of duties will continue to occur. In the future, an independent registered public accounting firm may be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting. Despite our remediation efforts, our management may conclude that our system of internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our system of internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. An effective system of internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 13 Table Of Contents We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have engaged in research and development activities since our inception. We incurred losses from operations of approximately $1.5 million and $1.8 million, for our fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of June 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit totaling approximately $13.3 million. Our products are in the development stage and, accordingly, our business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. We have limited revenues derived solely from the Formulation and Use Agreements with third party compounding pharmacies. Our net operating losses over the near-term and the next several years are expected to continue as a result of the further clinical trial activity and preparation for regulatory submission necessary to support regulatory approval of our products. Costs associated with Phase III clinical trials are generally substantially greater than Phase II clinical trials, as the number of clinical sites and patients required is much larger. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded research, development, and clinical trial activities. We are dependent on the Formulation and Use Agreements with third party compounding pharmacies for revenues. We have limited revenues derived solely from the Formulation and Use Agreements with third party compounding pharmacies. Pursuant to the agreements we receive royalty payments based upon doses of formulations compounded by the pharmacies. Pharmacies are regulated by local, state and federal authorities. Any changes in regulations that adversely affect the ability of the pharmacies to perform under the agreements or failure of the pharmacies to adhere to all regulation applicable to their business will significantly affect our ability to fund our operations. Our potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake will be successful. All of our potential products will require extensive additional research and development prior to any commercial introduction. There can be no assurance that any future research and development and clinical trial efforts will result in viable products. We do not yet have the required clinical data and results to successfully market our forerunner product, URG101, or any other potential product in any jurisdiction, and future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow us to successfully market any of our product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. We are subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect our business. The production and marketing of our potential products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. All of the products we are currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, harder and more costly to bring our potential products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our potential products will be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we or our business partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of our potential products may also adversely affect our business. Such rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of our current potential products for different applications. In addition, we may not receive FDA approval to export our potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be exported may not approve them for import. 14 Table Of Contents Manufacturing facilities for our products will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent we decide to manufacture our own products, a governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of our potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility. If we decide to outsource the commercial production of our products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance of the manufacturer could hinder our ability to bring our products to market. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to medical products. It is possible that the FDA or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations which would further reduce or restrict the sales of our potential products. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our potential and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for these products. In addition, regulations that affect the operations of the pharmacies which are party to the Formulation and Use agreements we have entered into or the pharmacies’ failure to adhere to applicable local, state and federal laws may significantly impact our operations. We rely on third parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. Like many companies our size, we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organization, or CROs that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. We intend to continue to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for all of our pre-clinical and clinical studies. Our reliance on these third parties for development activities reduces our control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: ● obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; ● reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; ● obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates; ● obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and ● recruiting participants for a clinical trial. 15 Table Of Contents In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: ● failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; ● inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; or ● lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Our failure to enroll participants in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than we may project for any of our product candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to discontinue from the trial. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if we or they believe the participants in such clinical trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. We rely on third parties to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in our clinical trials and commercial operations and an interruption to this service may harm our business. We rely on various third parties to manufacture the materials we use in our clinical trials and commercial operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, qualify and obtain prior regulatory approval for additional sources of clinical materials. If interruptions in this supply, as evidenced by the heparin recall in 2008, should occur for any reason, including a decision by the third parties to discontinue manufacturing, technical difficulties, labor disputes or a failure of the third parties to follow regulations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals to successfully commercialize our investigational product candidates. Any similar supply interruptions could affect the third party compounding pharmacies with whom we have signed the Formulation and Use Agreements and subsequently affect our revenues. We do not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. If we are successful in achieving regulatory approval and developing the markets for our potential products, we would have to arrange for the scaled-up manufacture of our products. At the present time, we have not arranged for the large-scale manufacture of our products. There can be no assurance that we will, on a timely basis, be able to make the transition from manufacturing clinical trial quantities to commercial production quantities successfully or be able to arrange for contract manufacturing. We believe one or more contractors will be able to manufacture our products for initial commercialization if the products obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals. Potential difficulties in manufacturing our products, including scale-up, recalls or safety alerts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 Table Of Contents Our products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, we may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for our products quickly if we or our contract manufacturer(s) are unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to enter into definitive and perhaps additional arrangements with contract manufacturing companies in order to secure the production of our products or to attempt to improve manufacturing costs and efficiencies. If we are unable to enter into definitive agreements for manufacturing services and encounters delays or difficulties in finalizing or otherwise establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, and distribute our products, then market introduction and subsequent sales of such products would be adversely affected. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as ours, which plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, our ability to have our products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. If, for any reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to commercialize our products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. If purchasers or users of our products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forgo or reduce such use. Even if our products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. Our revenues from the Formulation and Use Agreements with third party compounding pharmacies are dependent on the pharmacies’ ability to generate sufficient revenue from their operations, including patients and insurers willingness and ability to provide payment for the compounding services. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have very limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such effort will be successful. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. 17 Table Of Contents We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products, including URG101 in North America and Europe. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Our strategy for the future research, development, and commercialization of our products is based on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our products. If our product candidates do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of our products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. If our products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, our ability to generate significant revenues from our products would be limited. If we are not successful in acquiring or licensing additional product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, our business may be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we may acquire or license additional product candidates for treatment of urinary tract disorders. We may not be able to identify promising urinary tract product candidates. Even if we are successful in identifying promising product candidates, we may not be able to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on URG101 for our revenues. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license products or technologies to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. We may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on URG101 for revenue. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If our efforts to develop new product candidates do not succeed, and product candidates that we recommend for clinical development do not actually begin clinical trials, our business will suffer. We intend to use our proprietary licenses and expertise in urethral tract disorders to develop and commercialize new products for the treatment and prevention of urological disorders. Once recommended for development, a candidate undergoes drug substance scale up, preclinical testing, including toxicology tests, and formulation development. If this work is successful, an IND, would need to be prepared, filed, and approved by the FDA and the product candidate would then be ready for human clinical testing. The process of developing new drugs and/or therapeutic products is inherently complex, time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our development programs will result in products that will receive regulatory approval and achieve market acceptance. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. In addition, product candidates may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side effects during clinical trials, may take longer to progress through clinical trials than had been anticipated, may not be able to achieve the pre-defined clinical endpoint due to statistical anomalies even though clinical benefit was achieved, may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, may prove impracticable to manufacture in commercial quantities at reasonable cost and with acceptable quality, or may fail to achieve market acceptance. To date, our development efforts have been focused on URG101 for BPS/IC. There can be no assurance that we will be successful with the limited knowledge and resources we have available at the present time. All of our product candidates are in preclinical or clinical development and have not received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. An IND has been filed and is in effect for URG101 for the treatment of Bladder Pain Syndrome/interstitial cystitis, which has completed a positive Phase II clinical trial. Typically, the regulatory approval process is extremely expensive, takes many years to complete and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. 18 Table Of Contents The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: ● changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the United States, in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; ● a product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; ● the ability of the regulatory agency to provide timely responses as a result of its resource constraints; ● the manufacturing processes or facilities may not meet the applicable requirements; and ● changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates or the failure to maintain regulatory approval could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability. Our potential international business would expose us to a number of risks. We anticipate that a substantial amount of future sales of our potential products will be derived from international markets. Accordingly, any failure to achieve substantial foreign sales could have a material adverse effect on our overall sales and profitability. Depreciation or devaluation of the local currencies of countries where we sell our products may result in these products becoming more expensive in local currency terms, thus reducing demand, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our ability to engage in non-United States operations and the financial results associated with any such operations also may be significantly affected by other factors, including: ● foreign government regulatory authorities; ● product liability, intellectual property and other claims; ● export license requirements; ● political or economic instability in our target markets; ● trade restrictions; ● changes in tax laws and tariffs; ● managing foreign distributors and manufacturers; ● managing foreign branch offices and staffing; and ● competition. If these risks actually materialize, our anticipated sales to international customers may decrease or not be realized at all. Competition in our target markets is intense, and developments by other companies could render our product candidates obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is not a static environment, and market share can change rapidly if competing products are introduced. While we believe we are in the process of developing products unique in the delivery and application for treatment of urological maladies, we face competition from Ortho-McNeil, Inc., BioNiche, Inc., Plethora Solutions Ltd., Stellar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Trillium Therapeutics, Inc., and Taris Biomedical Inc., among others, who have either already developed or are in the process of developing products similar to ours. Further, there can be no assurance that we can avoid intense competition from other medical technology companies, pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations that might decide to develop products similar to ours. Many of these existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and/or other resources. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or cheaper to use than any that we may develop. These developments could render our products obsolete and uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table Of Contents If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products in development, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw such products. If concerns should arise about the safety of our products once developed and marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. Adverse events in the field of drug therapies may negatively impact regulatory approval or public perception of our potential products and technologies. The FDA may become more restrictive regarding the conduct of clinical trials including urological and other therapies. This approach by the FDA could lead to delays in the timelines for regulatory review, as well as potential delays in the conduct of clinical trials. In addition, negative publicity may affect patients’ willingness to participate in clinical trials. If fewer patients are willing to participate in clinical trials, the timelines for recruiting patients and conducting such trials will be delayed. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, others could compete against us more directly, which would hurt our profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks or licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection of these rights, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide sufficient protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could seriously impair our competitive position. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from marketing our products. Any future commercial success by the Company depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing on the patents and other proprietary rights of others. However, regardless of the Company’s intent, our potential products may infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation, may be obliged to enter into expensive licensing agreements, or may be prevented from pursuing product development or commercialization of our potential products or selling our products. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. In previous years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Competitors in the biotechnology industry may use intellectual property litigation against us to gain advantage. In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation, if successful, also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our potential products that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign our potential products that use the technology. We may also be required in the future to initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights to protect such rights or determine the scope or validity of our intellectual property or the rights of our competitors. The pursuit of these claims could result in significant expenditures and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not have sufficient cash and manpower resources to pursue any such claims. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we prevail in the dispute, would be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and the diversion of technical and management personnel and could require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from developing and selling our potential products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table Of Contents If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates successfully. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. As part of Urigen’s rebuilding process the company will need to attract and retain key employees in the future, including a CEO, CFO, and sufficient additional staff to ensure regulatory compliance and organizational success. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies. We have established a scientific advisory board consisting of C. Lowell Parsons, M.D., who is a Professor of the Department of Urology at the University of California, San Diego, Jeff Proctor, M.D., who is Director of Interstitial Cystitis at GA Urology, and William Schmidt, Ph.D, who is an analgesic drug development expert and head of Northstar Consulting, LLC. These members assist us in formulating research and development strategies. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. The failure of our scientific advisors to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, our scientific advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with our products. If the results of future pre-clinical studies, clinical testing and/or clinical trials indicate that our proposed products are not safe or effective for human use, our business will suffer. Unfavorable results from future clinical testing and/or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of future clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials, even after promising results in initial-stage trials. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. In addition, failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols could result in the test or control group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated, modified or terminated. The investigational product candidates that we are currently developing may require extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our investigational product candidates, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and/or clinical trials that our investigational product candidates are safe and effective in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. Our ability to complete clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, but not limited to: ● inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compounds for use in clinical trials; ● failure to receive approval by the FDA of our clinical trial protocols; ● changes in clinical trial protocols made by us or imposed by the FDA; ● the effectiveness of our investigational product candidates; ● slower than expected rate of and higher than expected cost of patient recruitment; ● inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; ● unforeseen safety issues; ● government or regulatory delays; or ● our ability to raise the necessary funds to start or complete the trials. These factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or investigational drug candidate. If we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in our clinical trials for a particular investigational product candidate, the commercial prospects for that investigational candidate will be harmed, and we may be unable to raise additional funds, generate product revenues, or revenues from that investigational candidate could be delayed. Commercial supplies of one of the active ingredients in URG101, heparin, were recalled by the manufacturer as the supply was compromised due to non-cGMP practices that resulted in such supplies failing to meet FDA approved product specifications. While the FDA has tightened the manufacturing process of heparin by requiring the use of more sensitive assays to ensure compliance with approved product specifications, such changes in and of themselves cannot guarantee uninterrupted commercial supplies in the future. 21 Table Of Contents We may not achieve projected development goals in the time frame we announce and expect. We may set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates, and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in its clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize the combined company’s products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that the combined company will be able to adhere to its current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of our common shares could decline. We will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our operations, which financing might not be available or which, if it is available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to engage in future development and clinical testing of our potential products will require substantial additional financial resources. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: ● Our financial condition; ● timing and outcome of the Phase II clinical trials for URG101; ● developments related to our collaboration agreements, license agreements, academic licenses and other material agreements; ● our ability to establish and maintain corporate collaborations; ● the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and ● competing pharmacological and market developments. We may have insufficient working capital to fund our cash needs unless we are able to raise additional capital in the future. We have financed our operations to date primarily through the sale of equity securities and through corporate collaborations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to our stockholders may result. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain an adequate and timely amount of additional capital on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including our viability as an enterprise. As a result of these concerns, our management is assessing, and may pursue other strategic opportunities, including the sale of our securities or other actions. We may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and might never achieve profitability. We may never become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize additional products. We will need to conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, is expected to result in substantial increase in operating losses for at least the next several years. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require an annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we are subject to the rules requiring an annual assessment of our internal controls. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. In the event that our management determines that our internal controls over financial reporting is not effective, as defined in Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market price of our common stock will be affected. There is a risk that investor confidence and share value will be negatively impacted. We have reported several material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we cannot maintain effective internal controls or provide reliable financial and other information, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports. We reported material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting related to the lack of segregation of duties and the need for a stronger internal control environment. In addition, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective for the years ended June 30 2010 and 2009. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Disclosure controls generally include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot maintain effective internal controls or provide reliable financial or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer and we might become subject to litigation. 22 Table Of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of our Securities Trading in our common stock was suspended by the SEC and there can be no assurance that our common stock will be quoted or traded on any securities exchange. Our common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board commencing June 19, 2007 under the symbol VLTS.OB and commencing July 30, 2007 as URGP.OB Effective October 15, 2010, our common stock began quotations on the OTC Markets Group, Inc. (informally known as “Pink Sheets”), until May 24, 2012, when trading was suspended in our common stock by the SEC because of our failure to file reports under Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange act of 1934, as amended. There is currently no trading in our common stock. There can be no assurance that the suspension will be lifted or that the SEC may not revoke our registration. For trading to resume in our common stock, the suspension will have to be lifted and we will need to arrange to have a market maker submit a Form 211 to commence quotation in our common stock. There can be no assurance that such application will be successful. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, include anti-takeover provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that enable our management to attempt to resist a takeover unless it is deemed by our management and board of directors to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Those provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. Our board of directors may also choose to adopt further anti-takeover measures without stockholder approval. The existence and adoption of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The successful execution of our business plan requires significant cash resources, including cash for investments and acquisition. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may not be available in amounts and on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Changes in business conditions and future developments could also increase our cash requirements. To the extent we are unable to obtain external financing, we will not be able to execute our business plan effectively. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in further dilution to our stockholders. There is currently no trading market in our common stock. Even if our common stock is listed for trading on a national exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, our shares of common stock may be thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or near ask prices or at all. There is currently no trading in our common stock. We cannot assure you that our common stock will be quoted or traded on any securities exchange. Even if our shares are listed or quoted on an exchange, we cannot assure that you will obtain sufficient liquidity in your holdings of our common stock. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk averse and would be purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we have become more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days, weeks or months when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained or not diminish. Even if a market for our shares of common stock does develop, the market price of our common stock may continue to be highly volatile. Our common stock remains subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Unless our common stock is listed on a national securities exchange, which would include the NYSE AMEX but exclude the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or we have stockholders’ equity of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $4.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. If our common stock remains subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document that describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions will probably decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, decrease liquidity of our common stock and increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. As a result, if our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Because we have never paid common stock dividends and have no plans to pay dividends in the future, you must rely upon stock appreciation for any return on your investment. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors. To date, we have paid no cash dividends on our shares of common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to provide funds for operations of our business. Therefore, any return investors in our common stock may have will be in the form of appreciation, if any, in the market value of their shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price you paid for shares of our common stock. 23 Table Of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 