ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors outline certain risks and uncertainties concerning future results and should be read in conjunction with the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or those we currently deem immaterial, may also materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from Burr, Pilger & Mayer LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our recurring operating losses and need for additional financing have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In connection with the audit of our June 30, 2007 financial statements our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have been informed that during the course of our audit that our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting suffer from certain “material weaknesses” as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. We intend to commence a process of developing, adopting and implementing policies and procedures to address such material weaknesses that are consistent with those of small, public companies. However, that process may be time consuming and costly and there is no assurance as to when we will effectively address such material weaknesses. We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have engaged in research and development activities since our inception. We incurred losses from operations of approximately $6.1 million, $15.6 million and $11.3 million, for our fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of June 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit totaling approximately $243.7 million. Our products are in the development stage and, accordingly, our business operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment and maintenance of a developing business enterprise, such as those related to competition and viable operations management. We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any products. Our net operating losses over the near-term and the next several years are expected to continue as a result of the further clinical trial activity and preparation for regulatory submission necessary to support regulatory approval of our products. Costs associated with Phase III clinical trials are generally substantially greater than Phase II clinical trials, as the number of clinical sites and patients required is much larger. 18 There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded research, development, and clinical trial activities. Our potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake will be successful. All of our potential products will require extensive additional research and development prior to any commercial introduction. There can be no assurance that any future research and development and clinical trial efforts will result in viable products. We do not yet have the required clinical data and results to successfully market our forerunner product, URG101, or any other potential product in any jurisdiction, and future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow us to successfully market any of our product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. Our primary product candidate did not meet its primary endpoint in a Phase II clinical study; therefore we are dependent upon incorporating appropriate protocol changes to the product candidate in order to achieve positive results in subsequent trials. URG101 is our patent-protected product, targeting PBS. We have recently completed a multi-center, randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled Phase IIb study in 90 patients. On October 30, 2006, Urigen N.A. announced that URG101 did not meet the primary endpoint in a Phase II clinical trial in PBS. We announced that the primary endpoint in this study was improvement in pain and urgency at the end of the study as monitored by the Patient Overall Rating of Improvement of Symptoms questionnaire, a measurement tool used in clinical trials of chronic pelvic pain. In this study, the difference between the URG101 treatment group and the placebo group did not achieve statistical significance for the primary endpoint of the study. We believe the overall results of the clinical trial may have been compromised by issues relating to patient selection. Furthermore, we believe that incorporation of appropriate protocol changes may allow us to achieve positive results in subsequent trials. Other exploratory endpoints were either statistically significant or trended in that direction, such as improvement in urgency with one treatment and a trend toward improvement in bladder pain with one treatment. In addition, we have identified important and significant changes to the study treatment protocol, such as requiring minimum pain and urgency scores upon entry that will be incorporated and tested in a single dose, placebo-controlled cross-over pharmacodynamic study. This pharmacodynamic study is planned to be completed as the next clinical step in the development of URG101; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the primary endpoint in this study or that URG101 will otherwise be successfully developed into a commercial product. We are subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect our business. The production and marketing of our potential products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. All of the products we are currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, harder and more costly to bring our potential products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our potential products will be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we or our business partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. 19 Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of our potential products may also adversely affect our business. Such rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of our current potential products for different applications. In addition, we may not receive FDA approval to export our potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Manufacturing facilities for our products will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent we decide to manufacture our own products, a governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of our potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility. If we decide to outsource the commercial production of our products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance of the manufacturer could hinder our ability to bring our products to market. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to medical products. It is possible that the FDA or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations which would further reduce or restrict the sales of our potential products. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our potential and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for these products. We rely on third parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. Like many companies our size, we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organization, or CROs that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. Third parties that we use, and have used in the past, to conduct clinical trials include Clinimetrics Research Canada, Inc. and Cardinal Health PTS, LLC. We intend to continue to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for all of our pre-clinical and clinical studies. 20 Our reliance on these third parties for development activities reduces our control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; · obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates; · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and · recruiting participants for a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: · failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; · inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; or · lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Our failure to enroll participants in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than it may project for any of our product candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner. 21 Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to discontinue from the trial. The Company, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if we or they believe the participants in such clinical trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. We do not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. If we are successful in achieving regulatory approval and developing the markets for our potential products, we would have to arrange for its scaled-up manufacture of our products. At the present time, we have not arranged for the large-scale manufacture of our products. There can be no assurance that we will, on a timely basis, be able to make the transition from manufacturing clinical trial quantities to commercial production quantities successfully or be able to arrange for contract manufacturing. We believe one or more contractors will be able to manufacture our products for initial commercialization if the products obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals. Potential difficulties in manufacturing our products, including scale-up, recalls or safety alerts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, we may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for our products quickly if we or our contract manufacturer(s) are unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to enter into definitive and perhaps additional arrangements with contract manufacturing companies in order to secure the production of our products or to attempt to improve manufacturing costs and efficiencies. If we are unable to enter into definitive agreements for manufacturing services and encounters delays or difficulties in finalizing or otherwise establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, and distribute our products, then market introduction and subsequent sales of such products would be adversely affected. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as ours, which plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, our ability to have our products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. If, for any reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to commercialize our products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement. 22 There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. If purchasers or users of our products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forgo or reduce such use. Even if our products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have very limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such effort will be successful. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful. We intend to seek additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products, including URG101 in North America and Europe. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Our strategy for the future research, development, and commercialization of our products is based on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our products. If our product candidates do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; the potential advantages of our products over alternative treatments; the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. If our products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, and others in the medical community, our ability to generate significant revenues from our products would be limited. 23 If we are not successful in acquiring or licensing additional product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, our business may be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we may acquire or license additional product candidates for treatment of urinary tract disorders. We may not be able to identify promising urinary tract product candidates. Even if we are successful in identifying promising product candidates, we may not be able to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on URG101, URG301 and URG302 sales for our revenues. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license products or technologies to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. We may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on URG101, URG301 and URG302 sales for revenue. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If our efforts to develop new product candidates do not succeed, and product candidates that we recommend for clinical development do not actually begin clinical trials, our business will suffer. We intend to use our proprietary licenses and expertise in urethral tract disorders to develop and commercialize new products for the treatment and prevention of urological disorders. Once recommended for development, a candidate undergoes drug substance scale up, preclinical testing, including toxicology tests, and formulation development. If this work is successful, an IND, would need to be prepared, filed, and approved by the FDA and the product candidate would then be ready for human clinical testing. The process of developing new drugs and/or therapeutic products is inherently complex, time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our development programs will result in products that will receive regulatory approval and achieve market acceptance. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. In addition, product candidates may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side effects during clinical trials, may take longer to progress through clinical trials than had been anticipated, may not be able to achieve the pre-defined clinical endpoint due to statistical anomalies even though clinical benefit was achieved, may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, may prove impracticable to manufacture in commercial quantities at reasonable cost and with acceptable quality, or may fail to achieve market acceptance. To date, our development efforts have been focused on URG101 for PBS. While we have experience in developing urethral suppositories, our development efforts for URG301 and URG302 have just begun. There can be no assurance that we will be successful with the limited knowledge and resources we have available at the present time. 24 All of our product candidates are in preclinical or clinical development and have not received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. An IND has been filed and is effective for URG101 for the treatment of chronic pelvic pain, which is currently in Phase II clinical trial; however, an IND has not been filed for URG301 or URG302. Typically, the regulatory approval process is extremely expensive, takes many years to complete and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trails for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trails. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trails. We cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trails of our product candidates will be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: · changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the United States, in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; · a product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; · the ability of the regulatory agency to provide timely responses as a result of its resource constraints; · the manufacturing processes or facilities may not meet the applicable requirements; and · changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates or the failure to maintain regulatory approval could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability. Our potential international business would expose us to a number of risks. We anticipate that a substantial amount of future sales of our potential products will be derived from international markets. Accordingly, any failure to achieve substantial foreign sales could have a material adverse effect on our overall sales and profitability. Depreciation or devaluation of the local currencies of countries where we sell our products may result in these products becoming more expensive in local currency terms, thus reducing demand, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our ability to engage in non-United States operations and the financial results associated with any such operations also may be significantly affected by other factors, including: · foreign government regulatory authorities; · product liability, intellectual property and other claims; · export license requirements; 25 · political or economic instability in our target markets; · trade restrictions; · changes in tax laws and tariffs; · managing foreign distributors and manufacturers; · managing foreign branch offices and staffing; and · competition. If these risks actually materialize, our anticipated sales to international customers may decrease or not be realized at all. Competition in our target markets is intense, and developments by other companies could render our product candidates obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is not a static environment, and market share can change rapidly if competing products are introduced. While we believe we are in the process of developing products unique in the delivery and application for treatment of urological maladies, we face competition from Ortho-McNeil, Inc., BioNiche, Inc., Plethora Solutions Ltd., and SJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc., among others, who have either already developed or are in the process of developing products similar to ours. Further, there can be no assurance that we can avoid intense competition from other medical technology companies, pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations that might decide to develop products similar to ours. Many of these existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and/or other resources. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or cheaper to use than any that we may develop. These developments could render our products obsolete and uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products in development, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw such products. If concerns should arise about the safety of our products once developed and marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. Adverse events in the field of drug therapies may negatively impact regulatory approval or public perception of our potential products and technologies. The FDA may become more restrictive regarding the conduct of clinical trials including urological and other therapies. This approach by the FDA could lead to delays in the timelines for regulatory review, as well as potential delays in the conduct of clinical trials. In addition, negative publicity may affect patients’ willingness to participate in clinical trials. If fewer patients are willing to participate in clinical trials, the timelines for recruiting patients and conducting such trials will be delayed. 26 If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, others could compete against us more directly, which would hurt our profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks or licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or licenses from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection of these rights, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide sufficient protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could seriously impair our competitive position. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from marketing our products. Any future commercial success by the Company depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing on the patents and other proprietary rights of others. However, regardless of the Company’s intent, our potential products may infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation and may be prevented from pursuing product development or commercialization of our potential products or selling our products. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. In previous years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Competitors in the biotechnology industry may use intellectual property litigation against us to gain advantage. In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation, if successful, also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our potential products that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign our potential products that use the technology. We may also be required in the future to initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights to protect such rights or determine the scope or validity of our intellectual property or the rights of our competitors. The pursuit of these claims could result in significant expenditures and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not have sufficient cash and manpower resources to pursue any such claims. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. 27 Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we prevail in the dispute, would be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and the diversion of technical and management personnel and could require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from developing and selling our potential products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates successfully. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of the services of any principal member of our senior management, including William J. Garner, Chief Executive Officer, Martin E. Shmagin, Chief Financial Officer, and Terry M. Nida, Chief Operating Officer, could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. We employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice, subject to the terms contained in their employment offer letters. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies. We have established a scientific advisory board consisting of C. Lowell Parsons, M.D. who is Chairman and Professor of the Department of Urology at the University of California, San Diego and S. Grant Mulholland, M.D. who is Chair Emeritus of Urology at Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University. These members assist us in formulating research and development strategies. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. The failure of our scientific advisors to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, our scientific advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with our products. If our primary product candidate, URG101, or any of our other product candidates, cannot be shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, are not approvable or not commercially successful, then the benefits of the Merger may not be realized. Our Phase IIb clinical trial of URG101 did not meet its primary endpoint. We cannot guarantee that URG101, or any other of our product candidates, will be successful in any future clinical trials and any future clinical trial of URG101, or any other of our product candidate, would require substantial additional capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Following the Merger, our primary product candidate is URG101. URG101 and our other product candidates are subject to all of the risks attendant to any drug and biologic product candidate. For instance, any of our product candidates must be rigorously tested in clinical trials, and shown to be safe and effective before the FDA, or its foreign counterparts, will consider them for approval. Failure to demonstrate that our product candidates, especially URG101, are safe and effective, or significant delays in demonstrating safety and efficacy, would diminish the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Moreover, once approved for sale, if ever, any product must be successfully commercialized. Failure to successfully commercialize one or more of our current product candidates would also diminish the anticipated benefits of the Merger. 28 As stated above, on October 30, 2006, Urigen N.A. announced that URG101 did not meet the primary endpoint in a Phase II clinical trial in chronic pelvic pain of bladder origin. Urigen N.A. announced that the primary endpoint in this study was improvement in pain and urgency at the end of the study as monitored by the Patient Overall Rating of Improvement of Symptoms questionnaire, a measurement tool used in clinical trials of chronic pelvic pain. We believe the overall results of the clinical trial may have been compromised by issues relating to patient selection. Furthermore, we believe that incorporation of appropriate protocol changes may allow it to achieve positive results in subsequent trials. If URG101, or any of our other product candidates, cannot be shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, are not approvable or not commercially successful, then the benefits of the Merger may not be realized, which would materially adversely affect our business. We may not achieve projected development goals in the time frame we announce and expect. We may set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to its success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates, and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in its clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize the combined company’s products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that the combined company will be able to adhere to its current schedule for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of its products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of our common shares could decline. We face potential Canadian tax liability related to Urigen N.A.’s continuation from British Columbia to the State of Delaware. For Canadian income tax purposes, there will be a deemed disposition at fair market value of all of Urigen N.A.’s assets owned immediately before Urigen N.A. continued into Delaware. Any gains resulting from this disposition will be included in income in Urigen N.A.’s final Canadian income tax return. To the extent Urigen N.A. does not have sufficient losses for income tax purposes to shelter the gains, a Canadian tax liability will result. In addition, to the extent the fair market value of the assets exceeds Urigen N.A.’s debts and the paid up capital of Urigen N.A.’s common stock immediately before the continuance, Urigen N.A. will be subject to an additional tax at the same rate as if a dividend had been paid by Urigen N.A. We will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our operations, which financing might not be available or which, if it is available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to engage in future development and clinical testing of our potential products will require substantial additional financial resources. We currently use approximately $200,000 per month to operate our business and we believe we have sufficient cash to continue our operations until February 2008. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: · Our financial condition; · timing and outcome of the Phase II clinical trials for URG101; · developments related to our collaboration agreements, license agreements, academic licenses and other material agreements; 29 · our ability to establish and maintain corporate collaborations; · the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and · competing pharmacological and market developments. We may have insufficient working capital to fund our cash needs unless we are able to raise additional capital in the future. We have financed our operations to date primarily through the sale of equity securities and through corporate collaborations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to our stockholders may result. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain an adequate and timely amount of additional capital on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including our viability as an enterprise. As a result of these concerns, our management is assessing, and may pursue, in addition to the Merger, other strategic opportunities, including the sale of our securities or other actions. If we are unable to complete our assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting within the required time periods as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or in the course of such assessments identify and report material weaknesses in our controls, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our current non-affiliated market capitalization qualifies us as a non-accelerated filer. As such, we are required to comply with the Section 404 requirements beginning with the fiscal year that ends June 30, 2008. We intend to diligently and vigorously assess (and enhance as may be appropriate) our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements. We anticipate expending significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404, however, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. In addition, the very limited size of our organization could lead to conditions that could be considered material weaknesses, such as those related to segregation of duties, that is possible in larger organizations but significantly more difficult in smaller organizations. Also, controls related to our general information technology infrastructure may not be as comprehensive as in the case of a larger organization with more sophisticated capabilities and more extensive resources. It is not clear how such circumstances should be interpreted in the context of an assessment of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to implement required new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, which may result in our independent registered public accounting firm issuing a qualified or adverse report on our internal control over financial reporting. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and might never achieve profitability. We may never become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize additional products. We will need to conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, is expected to result in substantial increase in operating losses for at least the next several years. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 30 Our stock price is expected to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop following the Merger. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · the results of our current and any future clinical trials of its product candidates; · the results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our preclinical product candidates; · the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements; · the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our product candidates; · the initiation of, material developments or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; · failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; · the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our product candidates; · issues in manufacturing our product candidates or any approved products; · the loss of key employees; · the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; · future sales of our common stock; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 31 In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial position, results of operations and reputation. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, our common stock is subject to trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such stock. Our common stock has been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board since June 19, 2007. Because our common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange, our shares are subject to the regulations regarding trading in “penny stocks,” which are those securities trading for less than $5.00 per share. The following is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks: · Prior to the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks. To make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser's financial condition and investment experience and objectives. Subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement. · A broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities. This agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.” A broker-dealer may not effect a purchase of a penny stock less than two business days after a broker-dealer sends such agreement to the purchaser. · The Exchange Act requires that prior to effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment. These disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors. · A dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within ten days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security. These requirements can severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these compliance activities. Because our common stock is subject to the rules and restrictions regarding penny stock transactions, an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and our ability to raise additional capital may be limited. We make no guarantee that our market-makers will make a market in our common stock, or that any market for our common stock will continue. Our stock price could be adversely affected by dispositions of our shares pursuant to registration statements currently in effect. Some of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares, which they are currently able to sell in the public market under certain registration statements currently in effect, or otherwise. Sales of a substantial number of our shares or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of June 30, 2007, we had issued and outstanding 17,062,856 shares of our common stock. This amount does not include, as of June 30, 2007: · approximately 2.6 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of all of our outstanding options and the release of restricted stock awards; and · approximately 4.7 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of all of our outstanding warrants. 32 These shares of common stock, if and when issued, may be sold in the public market assuming the applicable registration statements continue to remain effective and subject in any case to trading restrictions to which our insiders holding such shares may be subject from time to time. If these options or warrants are exercised and sold, our stockholders may experience additional dilution and the market price of our common stock could fall. In addition, in connection with the Merger, stockholders of Urigen N.A. may sell a significant number of shares of our common stock they received in the Merger. Such holders have had no ready market for their Urigen N.A. shares and might be eager to sell some or all of their shares. Further, Urigen N.A. recently entered into agreements with a couple of its vendors and business partners which give Urigen N.A.. the right to pay certain amounts due to such vendors and business partners for goods and services with shares of its Series B preferred stock in lieu of cash. Such vendors and business partners may be more inclined to sell our common stock than other investors as they have not been long-term investors of Urigen N.A.. Significant sales could adversely affect the market price for our common stock for a period of time. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, include anti-takeover provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that enable our management to attempt to resist a takeover unless it is deemed by our management and board of directors to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Those provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. Our board of directors may also choose to adopt further anti-takeover measures without stockholder approval. The existence and adoption of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our agreements with a vendor and business partners, which give us the right to pay certain amounts due with shares of Series B preferred stock and common stock, may adversely affect the market price for the combined Company’s common stock. Urigen N.A. has entered into agreements with a vendor and business partners that give us the right to pay certain amounts due for goods and services with shares of its Series B preferred stock and common stock. Under the agreement with one of our business partners, we were required to make a one-time issuance of 19,200 shares of Series B preferred stock, under the agreement with the other business partner, Urigen may pay milestone fees of up to $437,500 in shares of its common stock in lieu of cash, and under the vendor agreement, we are required to issue $10,000 worth of our common stock per month until the agreement is terminated by either party. There is no definitive termination date of the vendor agreement. The shares issued under the agreement with the first business partner vest in twelve equal monthly installments from the date of issuance, and are subject to repurchase by us upon the termination of the consulting relationship. We may not be able to meet the initial listing standards to trade on a national securities exchange such as the Nasdaq Capital Market or the American Stock Exchange, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of the combined company’s common stock. We intend to raise additional capital and consummate a reverse stock split in order to meet the requirements to obtain the listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange such as the Nasdaq Capital Market or the American Stock Exchange. The initial listing qualification standards for new issuers are stringent and, although we may explore various actions to meet the minimum initial listing requirements for a listing on a national securities exchange, there is no guarantee that any such actions will be successful in bringing us into compliance with such requirements. 33 If we fail to achieve listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, our common shares may continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or other over-the-counter markets in the United States, although there can be no assurance that our common shares will be eligible for trading on any such alternative markets or exchanges in the United States. In the event that we are not able to obtain a listing on a national securities exchange or maintain our reporting on the OTC Bulletin Board or other quotation service for our common shares, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for stockholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if our common stock remains quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or other over-the-counter market, the liquidity will likely be less, and therefore the price will be more volatile, than if our common stock was listed on a national securities exchange. Stockholders may not be able to sell their common shares in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares fail to achieve listing on a national securities exchange, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. In addition, a decline in the price of our common shares could impair our ability to achieve a national securities exchange listing or to obtain financing in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 