Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Economic conditions and the resulting decline in consumer spending could continue to adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our performance depends on general economic conditions and their impact on consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending, which have deteriorated significantly over the past several months and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Our business and financial performance, including our sales and the collection of our accounts receivable, may continue to be adversely affected by the current weakness and any future weakness in economic activity and consumer spending in the United States or in other regions of the world in which we do business. Further, economic factors such as a reduction in the availability of credit, increased or continuing unemployment levels, higher fuel and energy costs, rising interest rates, adverse conditions in the housing markets, financial market volatility, recession, reduced consumer confidence, savings rates, acts of terrorism, major epidemics (including H1N1 and other influenzas) and other factors affecting consumer spending behavior could adversely affect demand for our products. If consumer spending fails to increase, we will not be able to improve our sales. In addition, reduced consumer spending may cause us to lower prices or suffer increases in product returns, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. Current economic conditions could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, including counterparty risk. On February 26, 2007, O21NA entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with BFI Business Finance (“BFI”) with a maximum borrowing capacity of $5.0 million, which was extended to $8.0 million. In addition, effective March 23, 2010, we entered into a $3.0 million Promissory Note with Costa Brava Partnership III, L.P. (“Costa Brava”). The Chairman of our Board of Directors, Seth Hamot, is the President and sole member of Roark, Rearden & Hamot, LLC, which is the sole general partner of Costa Brava. The Promissory Note is subordinated to our Loan Agreement with BFI. The proceeds from the Note are expected to be used (i) to prepay the current balance on our revolving line of credit balance with BFI in its entirety and (ii) if any proceeds remain after such prepayment, for working capital purposes. However, we may continue to re-borrow from BFI under the Loan Agreement after such prepayment is made. We rely on this credit line with BFI and other credit arrangements to fund working capital needs. The recent unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets and resulting decline in general economic and business conditions may adversely impact our access to capital through our credit line and other sources. 13 Table of Contents Under the terms of our Loan Agreement, BFI may reduce our borrowing availability in certain circumstances, including, without limitation, if in its reasonable business judgment our creditworthiness, sales or the liquidation value of our inventory have declined materially. Further, the Loan Agreement provides that BFI may declare us in default if we experience a material adverse change in our business or financial condition or if BFI determines that our ability to perform under the Loan Agreement is materially impaired. In addition, we have a 0.6 million Euros line of credit in Italy with San Paolo IMI for LEM, which was reduced from 1.3 million Euros during 2009. We rely on this line of credit to fund working capital needs at LEM. Under the terms of this line of credit, San Paolo may further reduce the line of credit at its discretion. The current economic environment could cause lenders to fail to extend credit to us, which would have an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, if we require additional financing as a result of the foregoing or other factors, the capital markets turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors (many of which we have little or no control over) such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. Dollars; however, we purchase a substantial portion of our products from our manufacturers in transactions denominated in Euros. As a result, the weakening of the U.S. Dollar during 2008 and 2009 caused our cost of sales to increase substantially. If the U.S. Dollar further weakens against the Euro in the future, our cost of sales could further increase. We are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the operating results and financial position of our Italian subsidiaries O21 Europe and LEM, and due to net sales in Canada. Between January 1, 2008 and March 22, 2010, the Euro exchange rate has ranged from U.S. $1.23 to U.S. $1.60. Between January 1, 2008 and March 22, 2010, the Canadian Dollar exchange rate has ranged from U.S. $0.77 to U.S. $1.03. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had a net foreign currency gain and a net foreign currency loss of $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively, which represented approximately one percent and zero percent of our net sales, respectively. The effect of foreign exchange rates on our financial results can be significant. Therefore we have engaged in the past, and may in the future engage in, certain hedging activities to mitigate over time the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. Our hedging activities have in the past reduced, but have not eliminated, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. The degree to which our financial results are affected has depended in part upon the effectiveness of our hedging activities. As of December 31, 2009, we were not engaged in any foreign currency hedging activities. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $35.9 million and, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred a net loss of $3.4 million. We have not achieved profitability for a full fiscal year since our initial public offering. If we are unable to maintain or grow our revenues, or if we are unable to reduce operating expenses sufficiently, we may not be able to achieve full fiscal year profitability in the near future or at all. Even if we do achieve full fiscal year profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to achieve full fiscal year profitability within a short period of time, or at all, or if we are unable to sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, our financial condition and stock price could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our future capital needs are uncertain, and we may need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • acceptance of, and demand for our products; • the costs of developing and selling new products; • the extent to which we invest in new equipment and product development; • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; • the costs associated with the growth of our business, if any; and • our ability to realize additional savings through streamlining our operations. Although we believe we have sufficient funds to operate our business over the next twelve months, our existing sources of cash and cash flows may not be sufficient to fund our activities. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, particularly given current economic conditions and the recent turmoil in the capital markets. Furthermore, if we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may need to scale back our expenditures and we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and stylish products, demand for our products may decrease. The action sports and lifestyle markets are subject to constantly changing consumer preferences based on fashion and performance trends. Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our brands and our ability to continue to introduce innovative and stylish products that are accepted by consumers in our target markets. We must anticipate the rapidly changing preferences of consumers and provide products that appeal to their preferences in a timely manner while preserving the relevancy and authenticity of our brand. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing and product development efforts and expenditures to create consumer demand. Decisions regarding product designs must be made several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If we do not continue to develop innovative and stylish products that provide greater performance and design attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by our targeted consumers, we may lose customer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our net sales and market share. We may not be able to compete effectively, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline. The action sports and lifestyle markets in which we compete are intensely competitive. We compete with sunglass and goggle brands in various niches of the action sports market including Anon Optics, Arnette, Dragon Optical, Electric Visual, Fox, Oakley, Scott, Smith Optics and Von Zipper. We also compete with broader lifestyle brands that offer eyewear products, such as Quiksilver, and in the broader fashion sunglass sector of the eyewear market, which is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with a number of brands in these sectors of the market, including brands such as Armani, Christian Dior, Dolce & Gabbana, Gucci, Prada and Versace. We expect that our Margaritaville eyewear will compete with other lifestyle brands. In all markets, we compete primarily on the basis of fashion trends, design, performance, value, quality, brand recognition, marketing and distribution channels. 15 Table of Contents The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as marketing programs, product design and brand image. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition, a longer operating history, more comprehensive lines of products and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales and marketing, research and development and strategic acquisitions. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. They also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or consumer preferences. If our marketing efforts are not effective, our brands may not achieve the broad recognition necessary to our success. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our Spy and O’Neill brands by persons ranging in age from 17 to 35 and of our Margaritaville brand by persons ranging from 18 to 55 is essential to our future success. Accordingly, we intend to continue an aggressive brand strategy through a variety of marketing techniques designed to foster an authentic action sports and lifestyle company culture, including athlete sponsorship, sponsorship of surfing, snowboarding, skateboarding, wakeboarding, and motocross events, vehicle marketing, internet and print media, action sports industry relationships, sponsorship of concerts and music festivals and celebrity endorsements. If we are unsuccessful, these expenses may never be offset, and we may be unable to maintain or increase net sales. Successful positioning of our brand depends largely on: • the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; • preservation of the relevancy and authenticity of our brands in our target demographic, • our ability to continue to provide innovative, stylish and high-quality products to our customers; and • managing the recognition and perception of our various brands. To increase brand recognition, we must continue to spend significant amounts of time and resources on advertising and promotions. These expenditures may not result in a sufficient increase in net sales to cover such advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if brand recognition increases, our customer base may decline or fail to increase and our net sales may not continue at present levels or may decline. If we fail to develop new products that are received favorably by our target customer audience, our business may suffer. We are continuously evaluating potential entries into or expansion of new product offerings. In expanding our product offerings, we intend to leverage our sales and marketing platform and customer base to develop these opportunities. While we have generally been successful promoting our sunglasses and goggles in our target markets, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for any new products that we may develop. In addition, expansion of our business strategy into new product offerings will require us to incur significant sales and marketing and research and development expenses. These requirements could strain our management and financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand our product offerings include our ability to: • increase awareness and popularity of our existing brands; • establish awareness of any new brands we may introduce or acquire; • increase customer demand for our existing products and establish customer demand for any new product offering; 16 Table of Contents • attract, acquire and retain customers at a reasonable cost; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all of our product offerings; • maintain or improve our gross margins; and • compete effectively in highly competitive markets. We may not be able to address successfully any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable us to expand our business in a cost-effective or timely manner. If new products we develop are not received favorably by consumers, our reputation and the value of our brand could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of new products we develop or our inability to generate satisfactory net sales from any new products to offset their cost could harm our business. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. O21NA granted a security interest in substantially all of its assets to BFI as security for its obligations under the Loan Agreement. O21NA also established a bank account in BFI’s name into which collections on accounts receivable and other collateral are deposited (the “Collateral Account”). Pursuant to the deposit control account agreement between O21NA and BFI with respect to the Collateral Account, BFI is entitled to sweep all amounts deposited into the Collateral Account and apply the funds to outstanding obligations under the Loan Agreement; provided that BFI is required to distribute to O21NA any amounts remaining after payment of all amounts due under the Loan Agreement. Additionally, Orange 21 Inc. guaranteed O21NA’s obligations under the Loan Agreement and granted BFI a blanket security interest in substantially all of its assets as security for its obligations under its guaranty. If O21NA defaults on any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, BFI will be entitled to exercise its remedies under the Loan Agreement and applicable law, which could harm our results of operations and reputation. Additionally, our Promissory Note with Costa Brava is subordinated to our Loan Agreement with BFI. Pursuant to the terms of a Debt Subordination Agreement, by and between Costa Brava and BFI, Costa Brava has the option to purchase the outstanding amount under the BFI Loan Agreement. Specifically, the remedies available to BFI include, without limitation, increasing the applicable interest rate on all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement, declaring all amounts under the Loan Agreement immediately due and payable, assuming control of the Collateral Account or any other assets pledged by O21NA or Orange 21 Inc. and directing our customers to make payments directly to BFI. Our results of operations and reputation may be harmed by BFI’s exercise of its remedies. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive orders for these products from our customers. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brands’ image and harm our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships and diminish brand loyalty, thereby harming our business. 17 Table of Contents Our manufacturers must be able to continue to procure raw materials and we must continue to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers to sell our products profitably. The capacity of our manufacturers, including our subsidiary LEM, to manufacture our products is dependent in substantial part, upon the availability of raw materials used in the fabrication of sunglasses and goggles. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to manufacture or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could harm our net sales, results of operations and reputation. Our manufacturers, including LEM, have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, shortages of raw materials and other production delays, which have resulted in, and may in the future result in, delays in deliveries of our products of up to several months. In addition, LEM provides manufacturing services to other companies under supply agreements. The inability of LEM and our other suppliers to manufacture and ship products in a timely manner could result in breaches of the agreements with our customers, which could harm our results of operations, reputation and demand for our products. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully may be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including product design and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage our brand. We believe that our future success is significantly dependent on the contributions of A. Stone Douglass, who became our Chief Executive Officer in October 2008 and our acting Chief Financial Officer in February 2010, as well as Stefano Lodigiani, our General Manager of LEM and Director of Operations, Italy and our Vice President of Sales, Erik Darby. The loss of the services of Mr. Douglass, Mr. Lodigiani or Mr. Darby would be difficult to replace. Our future success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, design and sales and marketing personnel. We do not currently have key man insurance on Mr. Douglass or Mr. Darby. We do carry key man life insurance on Mr. Lodigiani for $1.0 million. If our management team is unable to execute on our business strategy, our business may be harmed, which could adversely impact our branding strategy, product development strategy and net sales. If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent action sports athletes to sell our products and preserve the authenticity of our brands. We generally enter into endorsement contracts with our athletes for terms of one to three years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes or public personalities to endorse our products in order to grow our brands or product categories. Further, we may not select athletes that are sufficiently popular with our target demographics or successful in their respective action sports. Even if we do select successful athletes, we may not be successful in negotiating commercially reasonable terms with those individuals. If we are unable in the future to secure athletes or arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion which may not prove to be as effective as endorsements. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our sponsored athletes could harm our brand and adversely impact our business. Any interruption or termination of our relationships with our manufacturers could harm our business. We purchase a substantial amount of our sunglass products from LEM and substantially all of our goggle products are manufactured by OGK in China. We expect to continue to manufacture substantially all of our 18 Table of Contents goggles through OGK in 2010. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our manufacturers other than LEM. We cannot be certain that we will not experience difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs and failures to comply with our requirements for the proper utilization of our intellectual property. Many of our manufacturers have extended credit to us and there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our relationship with any of our manufacturers is interrupted or terminated for any reason, including the failure of any manufacturer to perform its obligations to us, we would need to locate alternative manufacturing sources. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, and we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources in a manner that would enable us to meet our customer orders on a timely basis or on satisfactory commercial terms. If we are required to change any of our major manufacturers, we would likely experience increased costs, substantial disruptions and delays in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of net sales. Any failure to maintain ongoing sales through our independent sales representatives or maintain our international distributor relationships could harm our business. We sell our products to retail locations in the United States and internationally through retail locations serviced by us through our direct sales team and a network of independent sales representatives in the United States, and through our international distributors. We rely on these independent sales representatives and distributors to provide customer contacts and market our products directly to our customer base. Our independent sales representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time with limited notice. We do not have long-term agreements with all of our international distributors. Our ability to maintain or increase our net sales will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with our independent sales representatives and our international distributors. It is possible that we may not be able to maintain or expand these relationships successfully or secure agreements with additional sales representatives or distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to develop and maintain our relationships with our independent sales representatives or our international distributors, and any failure of our independent sales representatives or international distributors to effectively market our products, could harm our net sales. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a significant portion of our operations and sales are to customers outside of the United States. Our European sales and administration operations as well as some of our manufacturers are located in Italy. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural and regulatory differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • ability to finance our foreign operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • ability to finance our foreign operations; 19 Table of Contents • trade restrictions, higher tariffs or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and effect our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • difficulties in obtaining the protections of the intellectual property laws of other countries. Any of these factors could reduce our net sales, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, or upon expiration of our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales or increase our costs. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and trade dress laws to protect our proprietary rights with respect to product designs, product research and trademarks. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be effective and may be challenged by third parties. Despite our efforts, third parties may have violated and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could imitate our products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby potentially harm our competitive position and our financial condition. We are also susceptible to injury from parallel trade (i.e., gray markets) and counterfeiting of our products, which could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products from premium materials. Infringement claims and lawsuits likely would be expensive to resolve and would require substantial management time and resources. Any adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret, could require us to obtain licenses from third parties, could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which would harm our results of operations. Since we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Italy and China, we also are dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the U.S. Although we will continue to devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be successful or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not be significant. We have been unable to register Spy as a trademark for our products in a few selected markets in which we do business. In addition, although we have filed applications for federal registration, we have no trademark registrations for Spy for our accessory products currently being sold. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States and, if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights or resolve any conflicts, our results of operations may be harmed. We may be subject to claims by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, we may receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. Any intellectual property lawsuit, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to 20 Table of Contents significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease sales or to develop redesigned products or brands. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to redesign our products or obtain a license, we may have to discontinue a particular product offering. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to manage any growth that we might experience, our business could be harmed and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address this growth. If we experience growth in our operations, our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded and we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, any of which will distract our management team from our business plan and involve increased expenses. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. These challenges may include: • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; and • ensuring the distribution of our products in a timely manner. Our eyewear products and business may subject us to product liability claims or other litigation, which are expensive to defend, distracting to our management and may require us to pay damages. Due to the nature of our products and the activities in which our products may be used, we may be subject to product liability claims or other litigation, including claims for serious personal injury, breach of contract, shareholder litigation or other litigation. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large claims could harm our business by causing us to incur legal fees, distracting our management or causing us to pay damage awards. We could incur substantial costs to comply with foreign environmental laws, and violations of such laws may increase our costs or require us to change certain business practices. We use numerous chemicals and generate other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of foreign environmental laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the acquisition, handling, use, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations can be complex and change often. Remediation of chemicals or other hazardous by-products could require substantial resources which could reduce our cash available for operations, consume valuable management time, reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. For example, contaminants have been detected at some of our present facilities in Italy. Remediation efforts for such contaminants included the purchase and installation of new paint booths and related equipment, which are nearly complete. Costs related to the remediation efforts during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 included approximately 499,000 Euros and 57,000 Euros, respectively, for machinery and equipment capitalized on the balance sheet under property, plant and equipment, of which 358,000 Euros was purchased through a capital lease during 2009. In addition, we incurred approximately 5,000 Euros for environmental analysis costs, maintenance, spare parts and installation during each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We do not expect to incur any further material amounts related to such remediation efforts and expect to be completed by April 30, 2010. However, it is possible that we could incur additional costs in the future related to U.S. and foreign environmental laws. 21 Table of Contents In the event we are unable to remedy any deficiency we identify in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, management is required to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any deficiency that may be identified for which there are no compensating controls in place, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. As part of this continuous process, we may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If any deficiency we may find from time to time is not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the SEC rules thereunder, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not successfully integrate any future acquisitions, which could result in operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. We expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses from time to time that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, although we have no specific agreements with respect to potential acquisitions or investments. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations or managing various different brands; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition startup costs; • harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments that could harm our financial results. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. We will be unable to compete effectively if we fail to anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards and fail to develop products and solutions that incorporate these technologies and standards in a timely manner. To date, we have introduced various sunglass and goggle products developed around various technologies and standards and we may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop 22 Table of Contents products around any new emerging technologies or industry standards. If an emerging technology or industry standard that we have identified fails to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop products using adopted standards, our products may not be accepted in our target markets. As a result, our business would be materially harmed. We have limited experience in designing and developing products that support new technologies or industry standards. If our competitors move away from the use technologies or industry standards that we support with our products and adopt alternative technologies and standards, we may be unable to design and develop new products that conform to these new technologies and standards. The expertise required is unique to each technology and industry standard, and we would have to either hire individuals with the required expertise or acquire such expertise through a licensing arrangement or by other means. The demand for individuals with the necessary expertise to develop a product relating to a particular technology or industry standard is generally high, and we may not be able to hire such individuals. The cost to acquire such expertise through licensing or other means may be high and such arrangements may not be possible in a timely manner, if at all. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our common stock now trades on the over-the-counter market, which may impact the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Until March 25, 2010, our common stock was quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On September 16, 2009, we received a notice from NASDAQ indicating that, for the preceding 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market under Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). Pursuant to Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we had 180 calendar days from the date of the notice, or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. On March 16, 2010, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that we had not regained compliance with the Rule and are not eligible for an additional 180 day compliance period. Accordingly, our securities were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market on March 25, 2010. We expect our common stock to be traded on the over-the-counter market. The trading market for our common stock is limited and an active trading market may not develop. Selling our common stock may be difficult because the limited trading market for our shares on the over-the-counter market could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices of our shares, as well as lower trading volume. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may be significantly limited as a result of our delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We could face other significant material adverse consequences, including the following: • a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; • a reduced amount of news and analyst coverage of us; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; • reduced liquidity for our stockholders; • increased volatility of our stock price; • potential loss of confidence by collaboration partners and employees; and • loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our stock may be defined as a “penny stock” under Rule 3a51-1 under the Exchange Act. “Penny stocks” are subject to Rule 15g-9, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. To the extent our common stock is subject to the penny stock regulations, the market liquidity for the shares will be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this report. For example, between January 1, 2008 and February 25, 2010, our stock has traded as high as $5.00 and as low as $0.41. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the public float that exists in our stock from time to time. For example, although as of February 25, 2010 we have approximately 11.9 million shares outstanding, approximately 8.7 million, or approximately 73%, of those shares are held by 10 stockholders. If any of those investors were to decide to sell a substantial portion of their respective shares, it would place substantial downward pressure on our stock price. We also have 1,484,125 shares of our common stock reserved for the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which 553,416 were fully vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, in connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase up to 147,000 shares of common stock to Roth Capital Partners, LLC, and an affiliate, which are fully vested as of December 31, 2009. All 11,903,943 of our outstanding shares of common stock at February 25, 2010 may be sold in the open market, subject to certain limitations. The trading market for our common stock also is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us were to publish an unfavorable research report or to downgrade our stock, our stock price likely would decline. If one or more of these analysts were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of changes in demand for our products, our effectiveness in managing our suppliers and costs, the timing of the introduction of new products and weather patterns. Historically, we have experienced greater net sales in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year as a result of the seasonality of our products and the markets in which we sell our products, and our first and fourth fiscal quarters have traditionally been our weakest operating quarters due to seasonality. We generally sell more of our sunglass products in the first half of the fiscal year and a majority of our goggle products in the last half of the fiscal year. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our net sales will continue. As a result, our net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our net sales and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales and based on acquisitions we may complete. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. 24 Table of Contents Because of their significant stock ownership, some of our existing stockholders are able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. Four of our stockholders and affiliates control over 60% of our outstanding capital stock. Directors Seth Hamot and John Pound have direct or indirect control over approximately 48% of our capital stock, and our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates own or control, in the aggregate, approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders are able to exercise influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of the company or other transactions that non-controlling stockholders may not deem to be in their best interests. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving our company; • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 