Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Economic conditions and the resulting decline in consumer spending could continue to adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our performance depends on general economic conditions and their impact on consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending both domestically and internationally, which have weakened significantly over the past several years and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Our business and financial performance, including our sales and the collection of our accounts receivable, may continue to be adversely affected by the current weakness and any future weakness in economic activity and consumer spending in North America, Europe and in other regions of the world in which we do business. Further, economic factors such as a reduction in the availability of credit, increased or continuing unemployment levels, higher fuel and energy costs, rising interest rates, adverse conditions in the housing markets, financial market volatility, recession, reduced consumer confidence, savings rates, acts of terrorism, major epidemics and other factors affecting consumer spending behavior could adversely affect demand for our products. If consumer spending fails to increase, we will not be able to improve our sales. In addition, reduced consumer spending may cause us to lower prices or suffer increases in product returns, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. We rely on ongoing debt financing and we have a large amount of debt which may be difficult to repay or refinance when it becomes due. Our subsidiary, SPY North America, presently has the following credit arrangements: • A maximum $7.0 million line of credit with BFI Business Finance (“BFI”), of which, at December 31, 2011, $2.5 million was outstanding (out of a total of $3.6 million available for borrowing as of that date). This line of credit renews annually in February for an additional year unless otherwise terminated by either SPY North America or BFI. • A $7.0 million term loan borrowed from Costa Brava Partnership III, L.P. (“Costa Brava”) due on June 21, 2013, all of which was outstanding at December 31, 2011. The chairman of our board of directors, Seth Hamot, is the president and sole member of Roark, Rearden & Hamot, LLC, which is the sole general partner of Costa Brava. • A $6.0 million line of credit with Costa Brava due on June 21, 2013, all of which was outstanding at December 31, 2011. The amount SPY North America can borrow under the BFI line of credit is heavily dependent on the levels of its sales and eligible inventory, and the actual amount available for borrowing may be substantially less than $7.0 million. At December 31, 2011, $1.1 million was available. In addition, BFI may reduce SPY North America’s borrowing availability under the BFI line of credit in certain circumstances, including if BFI determines in good faith that SPY North America’s creditworthiness has declined, the turnover of SPY North 14 Table of Contents America’s inventory has changed materially or the liquidation value of such inventory has decreased. Further, BFI may declare SPY North America in default if SPY North America experiences a material adverse change in its business or financial condition or in its ability to perform its obligations under the loan agreement pursuant to which the BFI line of credit is extended. If we are unable to extend the due date of our borrowings from Costa Brava sufficiently prior to June 21, 2013, BFI might determine that to be a material adverse change. At December 31, 2011, our borrowings from Costa Brava were $13.0 million in principal plus $0.2 million in accrued interest, all of which becomes due on June 21, 2013. In addition, we intend to continue to elect to have the monthly interest payment due on our borrowings from Costa Brava added to the principal amount of such indebtedness, thereby increasing the aggregate amount of indebtedness that will become due to Costa Brava in June 2013. We have relied and will continue to rely on our borrowings from BFI and Costa Brava to fund working capital needs and ongoing losses. We do not anticipate that we can generate sufficient revenue and profit to repay these borrowings in full when due. Therefore, we will need to seek to renew the BFI line of credit at its annual renewal in February 2013, and to extend the June 2013 maturity dates of the Costa Brava indebtedness. If we are unable to renew the BFI line of credit and extend the maturity dates of the Costa Brava indebtedness, then we will need to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financing to continue our operations. No assurances can be given that any such financing will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. At this time, we do not have any commitments for alternative financings or for an extension of the maturity dates of the Costa Brava indebtedness. The inability to obtain debt or equity financing in a timely manner and in amounts sufficient to fund our operations, if necessary, would have an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The level of our future capital needs are uncertain, and we may need to raise additional funds in the next twelve months which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flow from operations, including during the year ended December 31, 2011. We anticipate that we will need additional capital during the next twelve months to support our planned operations. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the acceptance of and demand for our products; • the costs associated to maintain and grow our business; • the costs of developing, producing and selling new and/or existing products; • the costs of marketing the SPY® brand; • working capital requirements, including working capital necessary to support growth, if any; and • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We intend to borrow more under our existing line of credit with BFI, provided it remains available, and on terms acceptable, to us. As discussed under the risk factor immediately above, (i) the amount we can borrow under the BFI line of credit is heavily dependent on the levels of SPY North America’s sales and eligible inventory, and the actual amount available for borrowing may be substantially less than $7.0 million; and (ii) we expect that the amount of our indebtedness to Costa Brava that will become due in June 2013 will increase. If our existing credit arrangements do not provide us with sufficient liquidity, then we intend to raise capital through a combination of debt and/or equity financings. However, no assurances can be given that any such financing will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. The level of our future capital requirements will depend on many 15 Table of Contents factors, including our ability to grow and maintain net sales and our ability to manage working capital, expenses and expected capital expenditures. The amount of our current debt and the continued perception of uncertainty in the world’s economy may adversely impact our access to capital through our BFI credit line and other sources. The current economic environment could also cause lenders and other counterparties who provide credit to us to breach their obligations to us, which could include, without limitation, lenders or other financial services companies failing to fund required borrowings under our credit arrangements. Current economic conditions could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, including counterparty risk. The recent unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets and resulting decline in general economic and business conditions may adversely impact our access to capital through our BFI credit line and other sources. The current economic environment could cause lenders to fail to extend credit to us, and cause lenders and other counterparties who provide credit to us to breach their obligations to us, which could include, without limitation, lenders or other financial services companies failing to fund required borrowings under our credit arrangements, any of which would have an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, if we require additional financing as a result of the foregoing or other factors, the turmoil in capital markets could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors (many of which we have little or no control over) such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $51.4 million and, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred a net loss of $10.9 million. We have not achieved profitability for a full fiscal year since our initial public offering. If we are unable to maintain or grow our revenues, or if we are unable to reduce operating expenses sufficiently, we will not be able to achieve full fiscal year profitability in the near future or at all. Even if we do achieve full fiscal year profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to achieve full fiscal year profitability within a short period of time, or at all, or if we are unable to sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, our financial condition and stock price could be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and stylish products, demand for our products may decrease. The action sports and lifestyle markets are subject to constantly changing consumer preferences based on fashion and performance trends. Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our SPY® brand and our ability to continue to introduce innovative and stylish products that are accepted by consumers in our target markets. We must anticipate the rapidly changing preferences of consumers and provide products that appeal to their preferences in a timely manner while preserving the relevancy and authenticity of our SPY® brand. Achieving market acceptance for new products and new product lines (such as the prescription frame and performance sport sunglass product lines we introduced in 2011) requires substantial marketing and product development efforts and expenditures to create consumer demand. Decisions regarding product designs must be made several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If we do not continue to develop innovative and stylish products that provide greater performance and design attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by our targeted consumers, we may lose customer loyalty, which could result in declines in our net sales, gross profit and market share. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete effectively, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline. The action sports and lifestyle markets in which we compete are intensely competitive. Our SPY® brand competes with sunglass and goggle brands in various niches of the action sports market including Oakley, Ray-Ban, Dragon Optical, Anon Optics, Von Zipper, Electric Visual, Arnette, Scott and Smith Optics. We also compete with broader lifestyle brands that offer eyewear products, such as Quiksilver, Fox and Maui Jim. In addition, our recent entry into the prescription frame market exposes us to various other competitors, most of which have been in this market for significant periods of time. In all markets, we compete primarily on the basis of fashion trends, design, performance, value, quality, brand recognition, marketing and distribution channels. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as marketing programs, product design and brand image. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition, a longer operating history, more comprehensive lines of products and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales and marketing, research and development and strategic acquisitions. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. They also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or consumer preferences. If our marketing efforts are not effective, our SPY® brand may not achieve the broad recognition necessary to our success. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our SPY® brand is essential to our future success. Accordingly, we intend to continue an aggressive brand strategy through a variety of marketing initiatives designed to foster recognition for our brands in action sports and its attendant lifestyle cultures. If we are unsuccessful, these marketing expenses may never be offset, and we may be unable to maintain or increase net sales. Successful positioning of our brands depends largely on: • the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; • preservation of the relevancy and authenticity of our SPY® brand in our target demographic, • our ability to continue to provide innovative, stylish and high-quality products to our customers; and • managing the recognition and perception of our SPY® brand. To increase brand recognition, we must continue to spend significant amounts of time and resources on advertising and promotions. These expenditures may not result in a sufficient increase in net sales to cover such advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if brand recognition increases, our customer base may decline or fail to increase and our net sales may not continue at present levels or may decline. Our business may suffer if we fail to develop new products that are received favorably by our target customer audience or successfully expand distribution sales channels to reach those customers. We are continuously evaluating potential entries into or expansion of new product offerings. In expanding our product offerings, we intend to leverage our sales and marketing platform and customer base to develop these opportunities. While we have generally been successful promoting our SPY® branded products in our target domestic markets, we have not achieved the success desired in promoting our SPY® branded products in our target international markets or our licensed brands, such as O’Neill®, Melodies by MJB® or Margaritaville®. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for any new products that we may develop, such as our recent addition of prescription frame and performance sport sunglass product lines. In 17 Table of Contents addition, expansion of our business into new product offerings has required and will require us to incur significant sales and marketing and research and development expenses, and, in the case of our prescription frame and performance sport sunglass product lines, may target different retail and distribution sales channels where our SPY® brand is weaker. These requirements could strain our management and financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand our product offerings include our ability to: • increase awareness and popularity of, and the demand for, our existing brands; • establish awareness of and customer demand for any new brands or products we may introduce or acquire; • attract, acquire and retain customers at a reasonable cost; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all of our product offerings; • maintain or improve our gross margins; • produce and receive product on-time and according to specification through third party manufacturers; • compete effectively in highly competitive markets; and • expand our international penetration. We may not be able to address successfully any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable us to expand our business in a cost-effective or timely manner. If new products we develop are not received favorably by consumers, our reputation and the value of our brands could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of new products we develop or our inability to generate satisfactory net sales from any new products to offset their cost could harm our business. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. SPY North America granted a security interest in substantially all of its assets to BFI as security for its obligations under the BFI loan agreement. SPY North America also has established bank accounts in BFI’s name into which collections on U.S. and Canadian accounts receivable and other collateral are deposited. We refer to such accounts as the BFI collateral accounts. BFI is entitled to sweep all amounts deposited into the BFI collateral accounts and apply such amounts to outstanding obligations under the BFI loan agreement. Additionally, SPY Inc. guaranteed SPY North America’s obligations under the BFI loan agreement and granted BFI a blanket security interest in substantially all of its assets as security for its obligations under its guaranty. If SPY North America defaults on any of its obligations under the BFI loan agreement, BFI will be entitled to exercise its remedies under that agreement and applicable law. Specifically, the remedies available to BFI include increasing the applicable interest rate on all amounts outstanding under the BFI loan agreement, declaring all amounts thereunder immediately due and payable, assuming control of the BFI collateral accounts or any other assets pledged by SPY Inc. or SPY North America, and directing our customers to make payments directly to BFI. Our results of operations and reputation may be harmed by BFI’s exercise of its remedies. 18 Table of Contents The recent changes in our senior management may result in disruption of our operations or adversely impact the implementation of our business plan. During 2011 we experienced changes in key senior management positions. In April 2011: (i) A. Stone Douglass, who served as our chief executive officer since 2008 and as acting chief financial officer since 2010, resigned from all of his positions with our company; (ii) Carol Montgomery was appointed as our chief executive officer and secretary, (ii) Michael Angel was appointed as interim chief financial officer and treasurer, and (iv) Michael Marckx was promoted from vice president of marketing to president. Effective December 3, 2011, Greg Hagerman was appointed as our executive vice president, sales and operations. Effective December 15, 2011, Carol Montgomery was appointed to our board of directors and resigned as our chief executive officer, and Mr. Marckx was appointed as our president and chief executive officer. Effective January 3, 2012, Mr. Angel was appointed as our chief financial officer, treasurer and secretary. The effect of the changes in our key senior management positions may result in a disruption of our operations or could adversely impact the implementation of our business plan. If our management team is unable to execute on our business plan, our business may be harmed, which could adversely impact our branding strategy, product development strategy and net sales. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully may be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including product design and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage our brand. Our future success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, design and sales and marketing personnel. We do not currently have key man insurance on any of our employees. If our management team is unable to execute on our business strategy, our business may be harmed, which could adversely impact our branding strategy, product development strategy and net sales. If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products or develop new products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent athletes to sell our products, preserve the relevancy and authenticity of our brands and to support new products. We generally enter into endorsement contracts with our athletes for terms of one to three years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these athletes in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products in order to grow our brands or product categories. Further, we may not select athletes that are sufficiently popular with our target demographics or successful in their respective sports. Even if we do select successful athletes, we may not be successful in negotiating commercially reasonable terms with those individuals. If we are unable in the future to secure athletes or arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion which may not prove to be as effective as endorsements or may adversely effect our ability to develop new products. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our sponsored athletes could harm our brands and adversely impact our business. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive orders for these products from our customers. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery, and to fulfill the minimum purchase requirements under our supply agreement with LEM. We also maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have 19 Table of Contents in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand’s image and harm our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships and diminish brand loyalty, thereby harming our business. Our manufacturers must be able to continue to procure raw materials and we must continue to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers to sell our products profitably. The capacity of our manufacturers to manufacture our products is dependent in substantial part, upon the availability of raw materials used in the fabrication of sunglasses and goggles. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to procure from other vendors or to manufacture or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could harm our net sales, results of operations and reputation. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials and other production delays, which have resulted in, and may in the future result in, delays in deliveries of our products of up to several months. Any interruption or termination of our relationships with our manufacturers could harm our business. During 2011, we purchased a majority of our sunglass products approximately equally from one manufacturer in China and one manufacturer in Italy (LEM S.r.l. or “LEM”), and in the future, believe we will purchase a greater portion of our sunglasses sourced from China. The vast majority of our goggle products are manufactured by OGK in China. We expect to continue to manufacture a majority of our goggles through OGK for the foreseeable future. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our manufacturers other than LEM. We cannot be certain that we will not experience difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs and failures to comply with our requirements for the proper utilization of our intellectual property. In addition, our international manufactures are subject to economic, regulatory and market conditions in their respective countries. Most of our manufacturers have extended credit to us and there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our relationship with any of our manufacturers is interrupted or terminated for any reason, including the failure of any manufacturer to perform its obligations to us, we would need to locate alternative manufacturing sources. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, and we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources in a manner that would enable us to meet our customer orders on a timely basis or on satisfactory commercial terms. If we are required to change any of our major manufacturers, we would likely experience increased costs, substantial disruptions and delays in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of net sales. Any failure to maintain ongoing sales through our independent sales representatives or maintain our international distributor relationships could harm our business. We sell our products to retail locations in the United States and internationally through retail locations serviced by us through our direct sales team and a network of independent sales representatives in the United States and Canada, and through our international distributors. We rely on these independent sales representatives and distributors to provide customer contacts and market our products directly to our customer base. Our independent sales representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time with limited notice. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our 20 Table of Contents international distributors. Our ability to maintain or increase our net sales will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with our independent sales representatives and our international distributors. It is possible that we may not be able to maintain or expand these relationships successfully or secure agreements with additional sales representatives or distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to develop and maintain our relationships with our independent sales representatives or our international distributors, and any failure of our independent sales representatives or international distributors to effectively market our products, could harm our net sales. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a significant portion of our operations and sales are to customers outside of the United States. Our European sales and administration operations are located in Italy. During 2011, we purchased a majority of our sunglass products approximately equally from one manufacturer in China and from LEM in Italy, and in the future, believe we will purchase a greater portion of our sunglasses sourced from China. In addition, a majority of our goggle products are manufactured by OGK in China. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural and regulatory differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • ability to finance our foreign operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions in which our manufacturers are located, such as Italy and China, which among other things, may make expose the operations of our manufacturers to risk and increase our manufacturing costs; • trade restrictions, higher tariffs or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and affect our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • difficulties in obtaining the protections of the intellectual property laws of other countries. Any of these factors could reduce our net sales, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses. 21 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, we own a ten percent equity interest in one of our suppliers in Italy and purchase products from that supplier in transactions denominated in Euros. We also sell our products in Canada in transactions denominated in the Canadian Dollar and in Europe in transactions denominated in Euros. If the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro or the Canadian Dollar in the future, our revenue and cost of sales could be negatively impacted. Because the effect of foreign exchange rates on our financial results can be significant, we have engaged in the past, and may in the future engage in, certain hedging activities to mitigate over time the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. Our hedging activities have in the past reduced, but have not eliminated, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. The degree to which our financial results are affected has depended in part upon the effectiveness of our hedging activities. As of December 31, 2011, we were not engaged in any foreign currency hedging activities. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, or upon expiration of our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales or increase our costs. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and trade dress laws to protect our proprietary rights with respect to product designs, product research and trademarks. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be effective and may be challenged by third parties. Despite our efforts, third parties may have violated and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could imitate our products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby potentially harm our competitive position and our financial condition. We are also susceptible to injury from parallel trade (i.e., gray markets) and counterfeiting of our products, which could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products from premium materials. Infringement claims and lawsuits likely would be expensive to resolve and would require substantial management time and resources. Any adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret, could require us to obtain licenses from third parties, could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which would harm our results of operations. Since we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Italy and China, we also are dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the U.S. Although we will continue to devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be successful or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not be significant. We have been unable to register SPY® as a trademark for our products in a few selected markets in which we do business. In addition, although we have filed applications for federal registration, we have no trademark registrations for SPY® for our wearing apparel products currently being sold. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States and, if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights or resolve any conflicts, our results of operations may be harmed. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, we may receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. Any intellectual property lawsuit, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease sales or to develop redesigned products or brands. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to redesign our products or obtain a license, we may have to discontinue a particular product offering. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to manage any growth that we might experience, our business could be harmed and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address this growth. If we experience growth in our operations, our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded and we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, any of which will distract our management team from our business plan and involve increased expenses. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. These challenges may include: • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; and • ensuring the distribution of our products in a timely manner. Our eyewear products and business may subject us to product liability claims or other litigation, which are expensive to defend, distracting to our management and may require us to pay damages. Due to the nature of our products and the activities in which our products may be used, we may be subject to product liability claims or other litigation, including claims for serious personal injury, breach of contract, shareholder litigation or other litigation. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large claims could harm our business by causing us to incur legal fees, distracting our management or causing us to pay damage awards. In the event we are unable to remedy any deficiency we identify in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, management is required to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any deficiency that may be identified for which there are no compensating controls in place, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. As part of this continuous process, we may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal 23 Table of Contents controls are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If any deficiency we may find from time to time is not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the SEC rules thereunder, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not successfully integrate any future acquisitions, which could result in operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. We may consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products, licensing arrangements and businesses from time to time that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, although we have no specific agreements with respect to potential acquisitions or investments at this time. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies and our recent efforts to license other brands were not successful. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products, licensed brands or business operations or managing various different brands; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition startup costs; • harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments that could harm our financial results. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. We will be unable to compete effectively if we fail to anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards and fail to develop products and solutions that incorporate these technologies and standards in a timely manner. To date, we have introduced various sunglass and goggle products developed around various technologies and standards and we may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop products around any new emerging technologies or industry standards. If an emerging technology or industry standard that we have identified fails to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop products using adopted standards, our products may not be accepted in our target markets. As a result, our business would be materially harmed. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our stock is thinly traded and our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this report. Our stock is relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. For example, between January 1, 2010 and March 6, 2012, our stock has traded as high as $2.20 and as low as $0.25. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the public float that exists in our stock from time to time. For example, although as of March 6, 2012 we have approximately 13.0 million shares outstanding, approximately 9.7 million, or approximately 74.2%, of those shares are held by ten stockholders, with Costa Brava owning 48.7% of our outstanding shares. If any of those investors were to decide to sell a substantial portion of their respective shares, it would place substantial downward pressure on our stock price. The limited trading in our stock may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. We also have 2,439,967 shares of our common stock reserved for the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which 1,126,633 were fully vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2011. Additionally, we have 1,000,000 and 244,163 shares reserved for the conversion of outstanding convertible debt and warrants, respectively. Most of our outstanding shares may be sold on the open market, subject to certain volume and other limitations on shares held by affiliates pursuant to Rule 144 pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Our common stock now trades on the over-the-counter market, which may impact the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Selling our common stock may be difficult because the limited trading market for our shares on the over-the-counter market could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices of our shares, as well as lower trading volume. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may be limited as a result of limited trading volume. Our common stock is subject to “penny stock” rules. Our stock is currently defined as a “penny stock” under Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. “Penny stocks” are subject to Rules 15g-2 through 15g-7 and Rule 15g-9, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. Among other things, for transactions covered by these rules, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, these rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. To the extent our common stock is subject to the penny stock regulations, the market liquidity for our shares will be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of many factors, including changes in demand for our products, our effectiveness in managing our suppliers and costs, the timing of the introduction of new products and weather patterns. Historically, we have experienced greater net sales in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year as a result of the seasonality of our products and the markets in which we sell our products, and our first and fourth fiscal quarters have traditionally been our weakest operating quarters due to seasonality. In addition, we generally have sold more of our sunglass products in the first half of the fiscal year 25 Table of Contents and a majority of our goggle products in the last half of the fiscal year. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our net sales will continue. As a result, our net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our net sales and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales and based on acquisitions we may complete or licensing agreements we may enter into. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. Because of their significant stock ownership, some of our existing stockholders are able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. Four of our stockholders and affiliates controlled over 70.9% of our outstanding common stock as of March 6, 2012. Directors Seth Hamot and John Pound have direct or indirect control over approximately 49.2% and 10.5%, respectively, of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Hamot may convert a portion of a promissory note that he beneficially owns through Costa Brava into 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, which equates to approximately an additional 7.7% of our currently outstanding common stock. Our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates own or control, in the aggregate, approximately 68.8% of our outstanding common stock as of March 6, 2012. The interest of these stockholders may differ from that of minority holders. These stockholders are able to exercise influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of the company or other transactions that non-controlling stockholders may not deem to be in their best interests. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving our company; • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; and • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 