Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. Dollars; however, we purchase a substantial portion of our products from our manufacturers in transactions denominated in Euros. As a result, recent weakening of the U.S. Dollar has increased our cost of sales substantially and if the U.S. Dollar continues to weaken against the Euro, our cost of sales could further increase. We also are exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the operating results and financial position of our Italian subsidiaries Spy Optic, S.r.l. and LEM, and due to net sales in Canada. Between January 1, 2006 and March 24, 2008, the Euro exchange rate has ranged from US$ 1.18 to US$ 1.59. Between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2007, the Canadian Dollar exchange rate has ranged from US$ 0.84 to US$ 1.10. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had a net foreign currency gain and a net foreign currency loss of $114,000 and ($53,000), respectively, which represented zero percent of our net sales for both periods. As of December 31, 2007, we had no foreign currency contracts. The effect of foreign exchange rates on our financial results can be significant. Therefore we have engaged in certain hedging activities to mitigate over time the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. Our hedging activities reduce, but do not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. The degree to which our financial results are affected will depend in part upon the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of our hedging activities. The current substantial downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which would reduce our net sales. The retail industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. The merchandise sold by us is generally a discretionary expense for our customers. The substantial downturn or a recession in the general economy that is currently occurring in the United States or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects may significantly reduce consumer spending which could reduce our sales, perhaps substantially. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $17.3 million and, in fiscal 2007, the Company incurred a net loss of $8.0 million. We have not achieved profitability for a full fiscal year since our initial public offering. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be able to achieve full fiscal year profitability in the near future or at all. Even if we do achieve full fiscal year profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to achieve full fiscal year profitability within a short period of time, or at all, or if we are unable to sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, our financial condition and stock price could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with our acquisition of LEM or any future acquisitions, which could result in operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. In January 2006, we acquired LEM. The aggregate purchase price was 3.5 million Euros or $4.2 million in cash, plus a two year earn-out based on LEM’s future sales. Under the terms of the earn-out, we are obligated to make quarterly payments based on unit sales, up to a maximum of 1.4 million Euros, through December 31, 2007. The maximum amount of additional consideration was earned and paid out as of December 31, 2007. We expect to continue to consider other opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, although we have no specific agreements with respect to potential acquisitions or investments. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions, including our acquisition of LEM, and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. In addition, in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”), we are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances exist which indicate that goodwill may be impaired. As a result of changes in circumstances after valuing assets in connection with acquisitions, we may be required to take write-downs of intangible assets, including goodwill, which could be significant. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and stylish products, demand for our products may decrease. The action sports and youth lifestyle markets are subject to constantly changing consumer preferences based on fashion and performance trends. Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our brand and our ability to continue to introduce innovative and stylish products that are accepted by consumers in our target markets. We must anticipate the rapidly changing preferences of consumers and provide products that appeal to their preferences in a timely manner while preserving the relevancy and authenticity of our brand. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing and product development efforts and expenditures to create consumer demand. Decisions regarding product designs must be made several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If we do not continue to develop innovative and stylish products that provide greater performance and design attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by our targeted consumers, we may lose customer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our net sales and market share. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete effectively, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline. The action sports and youth lifestyle markets in which we compete are intensely competitive. We compete with sunglass and goggle brands in various niches of the action sports market including Von Zipper, Electric Visual, Arnette, Oakley, Scott and Smith Optics. We also compete with broader youth lifestyle brands that offer eyewear products, such as Quiksilver, and in the broader fashion sunglass sector of the eyewear market, which is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with a number of brands in these sectors of the market, including brands such as Armani, Christian Dior, Dolce & Gabbana, Gucci, Prada and Versace. In both markets, we compete primarily on the basis of fashion trends, design, performance, value, quality, brand recognition, marketing and distribution channels. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as marketing programs, product design and brand image. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition, a longer operating history, more comprehensive lines of products and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales and marketing, research and development and strategic acquisitions. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. They also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or consumer preferences. If our marketing efforts are not effective, our brand may not achieve the broad recognition necessary to our success. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our brand by persons ranging in age from 17 to 35 is essential to our future success. Accordingly, we intend to continue an aggressive brand strategy through a variety of marketing techniques designed to foster an authentic action sports and youth lifestyle company culture, including athlete sponsorship, sponsorship of surfing, snowboarding, skateboarding, wakeboarding, and motocross events, vehicle marketing, internet and print media, action sports industry relationships, sponsorship of concerts and music festivals and celebrity endorsements. If we are unsuccessful, these expenses may never be offset, and we may be unable to increase net sales. Successful positioning of our brand will depend largely on: • the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; • preservation of the relevancy and authenticity of our brand in our target demographic; and • our ability to continue to provide innovative, stylish and high-quality products to our customers. To increase brand recognition, we must continue to spend significant amounts of time and resources on advertising and promotions. These expenditures may not result in a sufficient increase in net sales to cover such advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if brand recognition increases, our customer base may decline or fail to increase and our net sales may not continue at present levels or may decline. If we are unable to leverage our business strategy successfully to develop new products, our business may suffer. We are continuously evaluating potential entries into or expansion of new product offerings. In expanding our product offerings, we intend to leverage our sales and marketing platform and customer base to develop these opportunities. While we have generally been successful promoting our sunglasses and goggles in our target markets, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for any new products that we may develop. In addition, expansion of our business strategy into new product offerings will require us to incur significant sales and marketing expenses. These requirements could strain our management and financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand our product offerings include our ability to: • increase awareness and popularity of our existing Spy® brand; 16 Table of Contents • establish awareness of any new brands we may introduce or acquire; • increase customer demand for our existing products and establish customer demand for any new product offering; • attract, acquire and retain customers at a reasonable cost; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all of our product offerings; • maintain or improve our gross margins; and • compete effectively in highly competitive markets. We may not be able to address successfully any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable us to expand our business in a cost-effective or timely manner. If new products we develop are not received favorably by consumers, our reputation and the value of our brand could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of new products we develop or our inability to generate satisfactory net sales from any new products to offset their cost could harm our business. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure obligations under our line of credit. On February 26, 2007, Spy Optic, Inc. entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with BFI Business Finance (“BFI”) with a maximum borrowing capacity of $5.0 million, which was extended to $8.0 million. Actual borrowing availability is based on Spy Optic, Inc.’s eligible trade receivables and inventory levels. Loans extended pursuant to the Loan Agreement will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the prime rate as reported in the Western Edition of the Wall Street Journal from time to time plus 2.5%. Interest will be payable monthly in arrears and Spy Optic, Inc. is required to pay at least $2,000 a month in interest regardless of the amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement at any particular time. The Loan Agreement also imposes certain covenants on Spy Optic, Inc., including covenants requiring it to (i) deliver financial statements and inventory and accounts payable reports to BFI; (ii) maintain certain minimum levels of insurance; (iii) make required payments under all leases; (iv) refrain from incurring additional debt in excess of $100,000; (v) maintain its corporate name, structure and existence; (vi) refrain from paying dividends; (vii) notify BFI in advance of relocating its premises; and (viii) refrain from substantially changing its management or business. As of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding borrowings under the Loan Agreement of $4.5 million. Spy Optic, Inc. granted a security interest in all of its assets, except for its copyrights, patents, trademarks, servicemarks and related applications, to BFI as security for its obligations under the Loan Agreement. Spy Optic, Inc. also established a bank account in BFI’s name into which collections on accounts receivable and other collateral are deposited (the “Collateral Account”). Pursuant to the deposit control account agreement between Spy Optic, Inc. and BFI with respect to the Collateral Account, BFI is entitled to sweep all amounts deposited into the Collateral Account and apply the funds to outstanding obligations under the Loan Agreement; provided that BFI is required to distribute to Spy Optic, Inc. any amounts remaining after payment of all amounts due under the Loan Agreement. Additionally, Orange 21 Inc. guarantied Spy Optic, Inc.’s obligations under the Loan Agreement and granted BFI a blanket security interest in all of its assets, except for its stock in Spy Optic, Inc., which it covenanted not to pledge to any other person or entity, as security for its obligations under its guaranty. If Spy Optic, Inc. defaults in any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, BFI will be entitled to exercise its remedies under the Loan Agreement and applicable law, which could harm our results of operations and reputation. Specifically, the remedies available to BFI include, without limitation, increasing the applicable interest rate on all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement, declaring all amounts under the Loan Agreement immediately due and payable, assuming control of the Collateral Account or any other assets pledged by Spy Optic, Inc. or Orange 21 Inc. and directing our customers to make payments directly to BFI. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be impacted negatively if our sales are concentrated in a small number of popular products. If sales become concentrated in a limited number of our products, we could be exposed to risk if consumer demand for such products were to decline. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 64% and 31% of our net sales were derived from sales of our sunglass and goggle products, respectively. Excluding net sales from LEM, for the year ended December 31, 2006, 64% of our net sales were derived from sales of our sunglass products and 35% of our net sales were derived from sales of our goggle products. As a result of these concentrations in net sales, our operating results could be harmed if sales of any of these products were to decline substantially and we were not able to increase sales of other products to replace such lost sales. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive orders for these products from our customers. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and harm our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships and diminish brand loyalty, thereby harming our business. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we experienced delays in manufacturing and shipping of our sunglass and goggle products. These delays have materially affected our results of operations. We may continue to experience similar delays, which could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our manufacturers must be able to continue to procure raw materials and we must continue to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers to sell our products profitably. The capacity of our manufacturers, including our subsidiary LEM, to manufacture our products is dependent in substantial part, upon the availability of raw materials used in the fabrication of sunglasses and goggles. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to manufacture or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could harm our net sales, results of operations and reputation. Our manufacturers, including LEM, have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, shortages of raw materials and other production delays, which have resulted in, and may in the future result in, delays in deliveries of our products up to several months. These delays have materially affected our results of operations. Such delays may continue to have a material effect on our results of operations. In addition, LEM provides manufacturing services to other companies under supply agreements. The inability of LEM and our other suppliers to manufacture and ship products in a timely manner could result in breaches of the agreements with our customers, which could harm our results of operations, reputation and demand for our products. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully may be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including product design and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage our brand. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of Mark Simo, who became our Chief Executive Officer in October 2006 as well as Jerry Collazo, our Chief Financial 18 Table of Contents Officer. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Simo. The loss of the services of Mr. Simo or Mr. Collazo would be very difficult to replace. Our future success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, design and sales and marketing personnel. We do not carry key man insurance. If our management team is unable to execute on our business strategy, our business may be harmed, which could adversely impact our branding strategy, product development strategy and net sales. If we are unable to retain the services of our primary product designer, our ability to design and develop new products likely will be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our primary product designer, Jerome Mage, for the design and development of our eyewear products. Mr. Mage provides his services to us as an independent consultant through his business, Mage Design, LLC. Our agreement with Mage Design, LLC expires on December 31, 2008. We cannot be certain that Mr. Mage will not be recruited by our competitors or otherwise terminate his relationship with us at or prior to the time our agreement with him expires. If Mr. Mage terminates his relationship with us, we will need to obtain the services of another qualified product designer to design our eyewear products, and even if we are able to locate a qualified product designer, we may not be able to agree on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us with such designer. If we were to enter into an agreement with a qualified product designer, we could experience a delay in the design and development of new sunglass and goggle product lines, and we may not experience the same level of consumer acceptance with any such product offerings. Any such delay in the introduction of new product lines or the failure by customers to accept new product lines could reduce our net sales. If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent action sports athletes to sell our products and preserve the authenticity of our brand. We generally enter into endorsement contracts with our athletes for terms of one to three years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes or public personalities to endorse our products in order to grow our brand or product categories. Further, we may not select athletes that are sufficiently popular with our target demographics or successful in their respective action sports. Even if we do select successful athletes, we may not be successful in negotiating commercially reasonable terms with those individuals. If we are unable in the future to secure athletes or arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion which may not prove to be as effective as endorsements. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our sponsored athletes could harm our brand and adversely impact our business. Any interruption or termination of our relationships with our manufacturers could harm our business. We purchase substantially all of our sunglass products from our wholly owned subsidiary, LEM and over half of our goggle products are manufactured by OGK in China. We expect in 2008 to continue to manufacture more than half of our goggles through OGK. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our other manufacturers other than LEM or with vendors that supply raw materials to LEM. We cannot be certain that we will not experience difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs and failures to comply with our requirements for the proper utilization of our intellectual property. If our relationship with any of our manufacturers is interrupted or terminated for any reason, including the failure of any manufacturer to perform its obligations under our agreement or the termination of our agreement by any of our manufacturers, we would need to locate alternative manufacturing sources. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources in a manner that 19 Table of Contents would enable us to meet our customer orders on a timely basis or on satisfactory commercial terms. If we are required to change any of our major manufacturers, we would likely experience increased costs, substantial disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of net sales. During 2007 and 2006, we experienced delays in manufacturing and shipping our sunglass and goggle products. These delays have materially affected our results of operations. We anticipate that we may continue to experience manufacturing and shipping delays and that such delays may continue to have a material effect on our results of operations. Any failure to maintain ongoing sales through our independent sales representatives or maintain our international distributor relationships could harm our business. We sell our products to retail locations in the United States and internationally through retail locations serviced by us through our direct sales team and a network of independent sales representatives in the United States, and through our international distributors. We rely on these independent sales representatives and distributors to provide customer contacts and market our products directly to our customer base. Our independent sales representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time with limited notice. We do not have long-term agreements with all our international distributors. Our ability to maintain or increase our net sales will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with our independent sales representatives and our international distributors. It is possible that we may not be able to maintain or expand these relationships successfully or secure agreements with additional sales representatives or distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to develop and maintain our relationships with our independent sales representatives or our international distributors, and any failure of our independent sales representatives or international distributors to effectively market our products, could harm our net sales. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a significant portion of our operations and sales are to customers outside of the United States. Our European sales and administration operations as well as our primary manufacturers are located in Italy. In addition, we distribute our products from an outsourced facility based in the Netherlands. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • ability to finance our foreign operations; • trade restrictions, higher tariffs or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and effects on our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and 20 Table of Contents • difficulties in obtaining the protections of the intellectual property laws of other countries. Any of these factors could reduce our net sales, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses. We may experience conflicts of interest with our significant stockholder, No Fear, Inc., which could harm our other stockholders. No Fear, Inc. (“No Fear”) and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 13% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this ownership interest, No Fear and its affiliates have the ability to influence who is elected to our Board of Directors each year and, through those directors, to influence our management, operations and potential significant corporate actions. Specifically, Mark Simo, our Chief Executive Officer and a Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors, is a member of No Fear’s Board of Directors, was the Chief Executive Officer of No Fear through October 2006, and owns approximately 37% of No Fear’s outstanding common stock. As a result of his position in No Fear, Mr. Simo may face conflicts of interest in connection with transactions between us and No Fear. In addition, as a purchaser of our products, No Fear accounted for approximately $1,305,000 and $795,000 of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No Fear and its affiliates may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, the interests of our other stockholders. These conflicts of interest could include potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, registration rights, sales or distributions by No Fear of our common stock and the exercise by No Fear of its ability to influence our management and affairs. Further, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impede the growth of our company. Our certificate of incorporation does not contain any provisions designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both No Fear and us will be reserved for or made available to us. If these conflicts of interest are not resolved in a manner favorable to our stockholders, our stockholders’ interests may be substantially harmed. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales or increase our costs. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and trade dress laws to protect our proprietary rights with respect to product designs, product research and trademarks. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be effective and may be challenged by third parties. Despite our efforts, third parties may have violated and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could imitate our products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby potentially harm our competitive position and our financial condition. We are also susceptible to injury from parallel trade (i.e., gray markets) and counterfeiting of our products, which could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products from premium materials. Infringement claims and lawsuits likely would be expensive to resolve and would require substantial management time and resources. Any adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret, could require us to obtain licenses from third parties, could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which would harm our results of operations. Since we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Italy and China, we also are dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the U.S. Although we will continue to devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be successful or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not be significant. We have been unable to register Spy as a trademark for our products in a few selected markets in which we do business. In addition, although we have filed applications for federal registration, we have no trademark registrations for Spy for our accessory products currently being sold. 21 Table of Contents We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States and, if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights or resolve any conflicts, our results of operations may be harmed. We may be subject to claims by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, we may receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. Any intellectual property lawsuit, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease sales or to develop redesigned products or brands. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to redesign our products or obtain a license, we may have to discontinue a particular product offering. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to manage any growth that we might experience, our business could be harmed and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address this growth. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded and we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, any of which will distract our management team from our business plan and involve increased expenses. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. These challenges may include: • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; and • ensuring the distribution of our products in a timely manner. We incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company. We incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have, and will continue, to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These new rules and regulations have also made, and will continue to make, it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Our eyewear products and business may subject us to product liability claims or other litigation, which are expensive to defend, distracting to our management and may require us to pay damages. Due to the nature of our products and the activities in which our products may be used, we may be subject to product liability claims or other litigation, including claims for serious personal injury, breach of contract, shareholder litigation, or other litigation. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large claims could harm our business by causing us to incur legal fees, distracting our management or causing us to pay damage awards. 22 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs to comply with foreign environmental laws, and violations of such laws may increase our costs or require us to change certain business practices. Because we manufacture a wide variety of eyewear products at our Italian manufacturing facility, we use and generate numerous chemicals and other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of foreign environmental laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the acquisition, handling, use, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations can be complex and change often. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present facilities, principally in connection with historical practices conducted at LEM. We have undertaken to remediate these contaminants. Although we currently do not expect that these remediation efforts will involve substantial expenditure of resources by us, the costs associated with this remediation could be substantial, which would reduce our cash available for operations, consume valuable management time, reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. In the event we are unable to remedy any deficiency we identify in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, management is required to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any deficiency that may be identified for which there are no compensating controls in place, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. As part of this continuous process, we may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If any deficiency we may find from time to time is not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the SEC rules thereunder, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this report. For example, between January 1, 2007 and March 10, 2008, our stock has traded as high as $6.75 and as low as $3.75. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the public float that exists in our stock from time to time. For example, although we have approximately 8.1 million shares outstanding, approximately 5.8 million, which is more than 70%, of those shares are held by less than 10 stockholders. If any of those investors were to decide to sell a substantial portion of their respective shares, it would place substantial downward pressure on our stock price. We also have 37,500 shares reserved for the issuance of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock awards. In addition, we have 937,875 shares of our common stock reserved for the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which 640,797 are fully vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2007. Additionally, in connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase up to 147,000 shares of common stock to Roth Capital Partners, LLC, and an affiliate, which are fully vested as of December 31, 2007. All 8,161,814 of our outstanding shares of common stock may be sold in the open market, subject to certain limitations. The trading market for our common stock also is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us were to publish an unfavorable research report or to downgrade our stock, our stock price likely would decline. If one or more of these analysts were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 23 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of changes in demand for our products, our effectiveness in managing our suppliers and costs, the timing of the introduction of new products and weather patterns. Historically, we have experienced greater net sales in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year as a result of the seasonality of our products and the markets in which we sell our products, and our first and fourth fiscal quarters have traditionally been our weakest operating quarters due to seasonality. We generally sell more of our sunglass products in the first half of the fiscal year and a majority of our goggle products in the last half of the fiscal year. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our net sales will continue. As a result, our net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our net sales and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales and based on acquisitions we may complete. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the establishment of a classified Board of Directors requiring that not all directors be elected at one time; • the size of our Board of Directors can be expanded by resolution of our Board of Directors; • any vacancy on our board can be filled by a resolution of our Board of Directors; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the Board of Directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the Board of Directors to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or Delaware law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. The provisions in our charter, bylaws and Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future, resulting in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 