ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors outline certain risks and uncertainties concerning future results and should be read in conjunction with the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or those we currently deem immaterial, may also materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business to date has been largely dependent on the success of VLTS 934. In July 2006, we announced that our Phase IIb clinical trial of VLTS 934 failed to meet any of its primary or secondary endpoints and that we had no further plans for the development of VLTS 934. We have undertaken restructuring activities since our announcement, but we may be unable to successfully manage our remaining resources, including available cash, which would adversely affect our business and may require us to seek bankruptcy protection. In July 2006, we announced that our Phase IIb clinical trial for VLTS 934 in patients with peripheral arterial disease failed to meet its primary or any of its secondary endpoints. We have no plans for further development of VLTS 934 and we have terminated our Phase IIb clinical trial. We had previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development VLTS 934. Following our announcement regarding the results of our clinical trial for VLTS 934, we announced restructuring activities, including a workforce reduction of approximately 55% of our employees on August 18, 2006. Further reductions of approximately 66% of our remaining workforce are anticipated by the end of October 2006. The total costs associated with the reduction in workforce on August 18, 2006 and anticipated further reductions are estimated to be between $525,000 and $1.4 million, primarily related to severance benefits, which will be recorded in the fiscal first quarter of 2007, and paid in the fiscal first and second quarters of 2007. As a result of the July 2006 announcement regarding negative results in our Phase IIb clinical trial of VLTS 934, Valentis is currently assessing its strategic opportunities including the sale or merger of the business, the sale or license of certain assets and the resolution of property leases. We are exploring alternatives to terminate our current facilities lease and divest related equipment and tenant improvements. We are also exploring strategic opportunities that may be available to us, including the sale or merger of our business, the sale of certain of our assets or other options. Despite these efforts, we may be unable to adequately reduce expenses associated with our existing agreements and commitments, including agreements related to our facilities, VLTS 934, our other potential products and technologies or otherwise related to our business. If we fail to reduce our current expenses or generate additional cash resources through sales of our assets or otherwise, we will be unsuccessful in managing our remaining resources, which would adversely affect our business and reduce the value of an investment in, and trading price of, our common stock and may require us to seek bankruptcy protection. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from Ernst & Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our recurring operating losses and need for additional financing have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Given our July 2006 announcement that our Phase IIb clinical trial for VLTS 934 in patients with peripheral arterial disease failed to meet its primary or any of its secondary endpoints, we are focusing our business efforts on pursuing strategic opportunities that may be open to us, including the sale or merger of our business, the sale of certain of our assets or other actions. If we fail to show progress toward a suitable strategic alternative, we will be unable to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a 14 going concern, which would adversely affect our ability to consummate any such strategic alternative, enter into collaborative relationships with business partners, raise additional capital or further develop our remaining potential products and technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may engage in strategic alternatives, which could materially adversely affect our business. If we are unsuccessful in consummating a suitable strategic alternative, we may be required to seek bankruptcy protection. Following our July 2006 announcement regarding the negative results of our clinical trial for VLTS 934, we are actively considering strategic alternatives that may be available to us with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. These strategic alternatives may include a variety of different business arrangements, such as the sale of certain of our assets, business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, investments and other alternatives. Our strategic measures implemented to date and any strategic opportunity we may pursue could disappoint investors and further depress the price of our common stock and the value of an investment in our common stock. Any strategic alternative we pursue may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges and may pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Moreover, given our financial condition and recent and anticipated workforce reductions, we may not be able to successfully implement any strategic alternative we pursue, and even if we determine to pursue one or more of the strategic alternatives described above, we may be unable to do so on acceptable financial terms and such alternatives may not enhance stockholder value or improve the trading price of our common stock. Although pursuing a strategic opportunity is subject to the risks outlined herein, if we are unsuccessful in consummating a suitable strategic alternative, our business would be materially adversely affected and we may be required to seek bankruptcy protection. Our remaining potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. We have no current plans to continue the development of any of these potential products or technologies and any efforts to develop and commercialize these potential products or technologies would be subject to a high risk of failure. In addition, we do not have sufficient resources to pursue the development of any of these potential products or technologies. The process of successfully developing potential products or technologies is very time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials and it may be difficult or impossible for us to develop, commercialize or license any novel or existing technologies. Until our recent July 2006 announcement regarding VLTS 934, our business strategy depended upon the successful clinical development of VLTS 934 and the subsequent development of additional potential products and technologies in our pipeline. Shortly following this announcement, we announced a workforce reduction of 55% of our employees, which included the elimination of scientific staff and advisors necessary to further develop our potential product candidates and technologies. We anticipate a further workforce reduction of approximately 66% of our employees by the end of October 2006. Consequently, we have no current plans to pursue the development of any of our remaining potential products and, in any event, such potential products and technologies currently are in research, preclinical development or the early stages of clinical testing, and commercialization of those potential products will not occur for at least the next several years, if at all. The development of new drugs is a highly risky undertaking and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake will be successful. In September 2004, we reported that our Deltavasc™ product did not meet its primary endpoint in its Phase IIa clinical trial in patients with the intermittent claudication form of peripheral arterial disease. In July 2006, we reported that our VLTS 934 product did not meet its primary or any of its secondary endpoints in its Phase IIb clinical trial in patients with peripheral arterial disease. All of our remaining potential products and technologies will require extensive additional research and 15 development prior to any commercial introduction. There can be no assurance that any future research and development and clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or technologies. Our remaining potential products and technologies include DEL-1, Deltavasc™, DEL-1 antibody, certain technologies for gene-based synthetic delivery systems, including PINC polymers, CLIC lipids and DNA Vax, Hermes gene expression technology, GeneSwitch regulation technology, OptiPEG PEGylation technology and plasmid backbone technology, all of which are described in more detail in “Business” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are considering strategic opportunities that may be available to us with respect to our potential products and technologies, given the substantial reduction in our research and development and clinical resources in connection with the termination of our VLTS 934 development activities. We will be unable to successfully develop these potential products and technologies ourselves, and we also may be unable to enter into strategic collaborations with third parties to pursue the development of these potential products and technologies. Even if we are able to identify potential strategic collaborators or licensees for these potential products and technologies, we may be unable to negotiate relationships with these parties on favorable terms, or at all. Moreover, any failure to obtain an adequate and timely amount of additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may limit our ability to carry out any further research and development activities or strategic opportunities we may opt to pursue with respect to our remaining potential products and technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including our viability as an enterprise. We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have engaged in research and development activities since our inception. We incurred losses from operations of approximately $15.6 million, $11.3 million and $6.5 million, for our fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of June 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit totaling approximately $240.0 million. In addition, following our July 2006 announcement regarding the negative results of our clinical trial for VLTS 934, we announced restructuring activities, including a workforce reduction of approximately 55% of our employees on August 18, 2006. Further workforce reductions of approximately 66% are anticipated by the end of October 2006. The total costs associated with the reduction in workforce on August 18, 2006 and anticipated further reductions are estimated to be between $525,000 and $1.4 million, primarily related to severance benefits, which will be recorded in the fiscal first quarter of 2007 and paid in the fiscal first and second quarters of 2007. We have no current plans to develop or commercialize any of our remaining potential products or technologies and, in any event, the development and commercialization of potential products and technologies will require completion of additional clinical trials and significant research and development activities. We expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as we evaluate the strategic opportunities that may be available to us, which may include the sale or merger of our business, the sale of certain assets or other actions. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on the outcome of our efforts with respect to these strategic alternatives and the other risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our restructuring and strategic activities and our product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We announced a significant reduction in our workforce in August 2006 and we anticipate further substantial reductions in our workforce will occur. As a result of our financial condition and actual and anticipated workforce reductions, we may not be successful in retaining key employees or in attracting additional qualified personnel, which could adversely affect our efforts to effectively manage our remaining resources and explore or consummate any strategic opportunities that may be available to us. In July 2006, we announced that our Phase IIb clinical trial for VLTS 934 in patients with peripheral arterial disease failed to meet its primary or any of its secondary endpoints. Shortly thereafter, in 16 August 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a plan to reduce our staff by eliminating approximately 55% of our employees on August 18, 2006. Further workforce reductions of approximately 66% are anticipated by the end of October 2006. The total costs associated with the reduction in workforce on August 18, 2006 and anticipated further reductions are estimated to be between $525,000 and $1.4 million, primarily related to severance benefits, which will be recorded in the fiscal first quarter of 2007, and paid in the fiscal first and second quarters of 2007. We anticipate that several members of our principal management may not remain with us over the long term. Moreover, given our current financial condition, we expect that it will be difficult to attract and retain the services of any additional personnel we may need to operate our business or consummate any strategic opportunity that may be available to us. While a further reduced workforce will assist us in conserving our remaining resources, the loss of the services of any principal member of our management could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of any strategic alternatives that may be available to us, which would adversely affect our future business prospects and the value of an investment in our common stock. There are no assurances that we can maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, and the failure to maintain this listing could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our common stock. On January 31, 2003, our common stock began trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market pursuant to an exception from delisting. In the event we fail to demonstrate compliance, as well as an ability to sustain compliance, with all requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, including Nasdaq’s corporate governance criteria, our securities will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. In August 2006, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that we are not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”) because the closing bid price per share for our common stock has been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until February 20, 2007, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. Should we fail to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by February 20, 2007, Nasdaq will determine whether we meet The Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the bid price requirement. If we meet the initial listing criteria, Nasdaq will notify us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar day compliance period. If we are not eligible for an additional compliance period, Nasdaq will provide us with written notification that our common stock will be delisted. If our securities are delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, the trading of our common stock is likely to be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Capital Market will result in decreased liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock and a resulting inability of our stockholders to sell our common stock or obtain accurate quotations as to their market value, which would reduce the price at which our shares trade. The delisting of our common stock could also deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise generating interest in our common stock and would adversely affect our ability to attract investors in our common stock. Furthermore, our ability to raise additional capital would be severely impaired. As a result of these factors, the value of the common stock would decline significantly, and our stockholders could lose some or all of their investment. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has dropped significantly as a result of our recent announcements regarding our product candidate VLTS 934 and may continue to be highly volatile. Our common stock has traded below $1.00 per share since these announcements and closed at $.3802 on 17 September 26, 2006. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: · announcements regarding any strategic alternative we may choose to pursue or the lack of such announcement; · announcements regarding future reductions in our remaining staff; · announcements regarding our financial condition; · developments related to our collaboration agreements, license agreements, academic licenses and other material agreements; · changes in our eligibility for continued listing of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market; · our ability to attract and retain corporate partners; · developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products or product candidates, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, corporate partnerships or joint ventures; and · market conditions for biopharmaceutical or biotechnology stocks in general. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. We may engage in strategic alternatives, which could result in changes to our management and Board of Directors, which could result in material changes to our business operations, strategies and focus moving forward. Following our July 2006 announcement regarding the negative results of our clinical trial for VLTS 934, we are actively considering strategic alternatives that may be available to us with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. These strategic alternatives may include a variety of different business arrangements, including business combinations. If we pursue any business combination opportunities available to us, any resulting entity may have a substantially, or completely, different management group and board of directors. There can be no guarantee that any such different management group and board of directors would operate Valentis consistent with our past business operations, strategies and focus. Moreover, even if we are able to pursue a business combination, there can be no assurance that any resulting entity and material changes in our business operations, strategies or focus would be successful, and such transactions could disappoint investors and further depress the price of our common stock and the value of an investment in our common stock. Any strategic alternative we pursue may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges and may pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. 18 Certain of our collaboration, contract research, license and other agreements may be affected as a result of our current business focus on strategic alternatives. The parties to such agreements may be able to terminate such agreements if we are unable to perform our obligations under such agreements or if we pursue certain types of strategic alternatives, which could prevent or delay us from consummating certain strategic alternatives and reduce the value of our remaining potential products and technologies. Following our July 2006 announcement regarding negative results in our Phase IIb clinical trial of VLTS 934 in parties with PAD, we have ceased all research and development activities on all of our potential products and technologies, including activities under our collaboration and contract research agreements and activities relating to our clinical trials. Certain of our collaboration, contract research, license and other agreements may give our partners the right to terminate such agreements if we fail to perform our obligations under such agreements. For example, we expect that each of our corporate collaborations described under the caption “Item 1. Business—Corporate Collaboration” will be terminated according to the terms of the respective agreement underlying such collaborations. Although we do not expect that any of our technology licenses or academic licenses will be terminated in the near term, we cannot guarantee that our partners to such agreements will not seek to terminate their agreements with us. The loss of any of these agreements, or the rights we receive under such agreements, may materially adversely affect the aggregate value of our remaining potential products and technologies and may prevent us from carrying our any strategic opportunity that may be available to us, which would materially adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, certain of our collaboration, contract research, license and other agreements are silent with respect to, or contain prohibitions on, our ability to assign such agreements in the event of certain business combinations and assets sales. Although we generally believe that we have the right to assign a substantial majority of our agreements if we determine to pursue certain types of business combinations, we cannot assure you that our partners to such agreements would not seek to prevent or delay the assignment of such agreements, which might render potential strategic partners less willing to negotiate with us and decrease the value of our remaining potential products and technologies. Our stock price could be adversely affected by dispositions of our shares pursuant to registration statements currently in effect. Some of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares, which they are currently able to sell in the public market under certain registration statements currently in effect, or otherwise. Sales of a substantial number of our shares or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of June 30, 2006, we had issued and outstanding 17,087,737 shares of our common stock. This amount does not include, as of June 30, 2006: · approximately 3.7 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of all of our outstanding options and the release of restricted stock awards; and · approximately 4.7 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of all of our outstanding warrants. These shares of common stock, if and when issued, may be sold in the public market assuming the applicable registration statements continue to remain effective and subject in any case to trading restrictions to which our insiders holding such shares may be subject from time to time. If these options or warrants are exercised and sold, our stockholders may experience additional dilution and the market price of our common stock could fall. 19 We must be able to continue to secure additional financing in order to continue our operations, which might not be available or which, if available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to pursue any strategic alternative that may be available to us or to engage in any future development and clinical testing of our potential products will require substantial additional financial resources. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: Our ability to pursue any strategic opportunity that may be available to us or to engage in any future development and clinical testing of our potential products will require substantial additional financial resources. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: · any strategic alternative we may choose to pursue; · future reductions in our remaining staff; · our financial condition; · developments related to our collaboration agreements, license agreements, academic licenses and other material agreements; · changes in our eligibility for continued listing of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market; · progress and results of our clinical trials and preclinical studies; · time and costs involved in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; · scientific progress in our research and development programs; · size and complexity of such programs; · our ability to establish and maintain corporate collaborations; · the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; · competing technological and market developments; and · the cost of manufacturing material for preclinical, clinical and commercial purposes. We may have insufficient working capital to fund our cash needs unless we are able to raise additional capital in the future. We have financed our operations to date primarily through the sale of equity securities and through corporate collaborations. We do not anticipate generating revenues for the foreseeable future and may fund our operations through additional third party financing or other means. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders may result. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain an adequate and timely amount of additional capital on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including our viability as an enterprise. As a result of these concerns, management is assessing, and may pursue, strategic alternatives, including the sale or merger of the business, the sale of certain assets or other actions. We may also take actions to conserve our cash resources through further reductions in our personnel or by relinquishing greater or all rights to our potential products at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we otherwise would. Any or all of these actions could have a material adverse affect on our business. 20 We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The market price of development stage companies is typically volatile. When there is a sharp drop in the stock price of a development stage company, stockholder class actions may be filed against the company. Our stock price dropped substantially following our July 2006 announcement regarding the negative results of our clinical trial for VLTS 934 and has traded below $1.00 per share since our announcement. We do not anticipate that the price of our common stock will significantly increase in the short term. As a result, we may become involved in securities litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Due to our financial condition, we may be unable to attract and retain corporate or academic partners to develop, introduce and market our remaining potential products and technologies. Our business strategy has been to attract business partners to fund or conduct research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and sales of our potential products and technologies. We face intense competition from many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries for corporate collaborations, as well as for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for obtaining licenses to proprietary technology. Our financial condition will substantially reduce our ability to attract and retain current and potential corporate and academic partners, which will reduce our ability to develop, introduce and market our potential products and could adversely affect our business. In addition, as a result of our recent announcements concerning VLTS 934 and our recent restructuring activities, our existing partners may not devote sufficient resources to the development, introduction and marketing of our remaining potential products or technologies or may elect to cease pursuing further development and commercialization of potential products or technologies resulting from collaborations with us. If any of our corporate or academic partners elects to terminate its relationship with us, the value of our remaining assets may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to negotiate alternative corporate or academic partnership agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. Our potential products are subject to extensive regulatory approval by the FDA and others, including with regard to completion of clinical trials, which is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. We cannot assure you that any of our remaining potential products or technologies will be approved. We are subject to significant regulatory requirements, including the successful completion of clinical trials, prior to the commercialization of our potential products. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Services Act, and related regulations, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, regulates the development, clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution and promotion of drugs and biologics in the United States. Prior to market introduction in the United States, a potential drug or biological product must undergo rigorous clinical trials that meet the requirements of the FDA in order to demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Depending upon the type, novelty and effects of the drug and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the FDA approval process can take several years, require extensive clinical testing and result in significant expenditures. Clinical trials and the FDA approval process are long, expensive and uncertain processes, which require substantial time, effort and financial and human resources. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, and we may encounter problems or fail to demonstrate the efficacy or safety that cause us, or the FDA, to delay, suspend or terminate the development of any potential products. For example, in July 2006, we announced that our Phase IIb clinical trial for VLTS 934 in patients with peripheral arterial disease failed to meet its primary or any of its secondary endpoints. We have no plans for further development of VLTS 934 and we have terminated our Phase IIb clinical trial. We had 21 previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development VLTS 934. Although we have a pipeline of remaining potential products and technologies, we have no current plans for the further commercial development of any of our potential products or technologies. Even were we able to continue development of any of our potential products, clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes during which we may encounter difficulties completing the trial. Problems we may encounter include the unavailability of preferred sites for conducting the trials, an insufficient number of eligible subjects, changes in the number of subjects based on the performance of interim analyses, changes in protocol and other factors, which may delay the advancement of our clinical trials, lead to increased costs or result in the termination of the clinical trials altogether. Furthermore, the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time if it believes the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if it finds deficiencies in the clinical trial process or the conduct of the investigation. We cannot assure you that clinical testing for any of our remaining potential products will be completed within any specific time period, if at all. There can be no assurance that any FDA approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that any of our potential products will prove safe and effective in all required clinical trials or will meet all applicable regulatory requirements necessary to receive marketing approval from the FDA. In addition, should any other future clinical trials for our potential products fail to demonstrate a statistically significant therapeutic drug effect and/or show that our potential products are safe for the targeted patient population, our business and prospects could be harmed, the market price of our common stock could fall, our ability to generate revenues from those potential products could be adversely affected, delayed or prevented entirely, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully obtain FDA approval for our potential products, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to market our potential products outside the United States since the commercialization of our potential products outside the United States will be subject to separate regulations imposed by foreign government agencies. The approval procedures for marketing outside the United States vary among countries and can involve additional testing. Accordingly, we cannot predict with any certainty how long it will take or how much it will cost to obtain regulatory approvals for manufacturing and marketing our potential products within and outside the United States or whether we will be able to obtain those regulatory approvals at all. Our failure to successfully complete any necessary clinical trials, and obtain FDA and any applicable foreign government approvals, or any delays in receipt of such approvals, could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face strong competition in the markets we have targeted from other companies with substantially greater experience, financial resources and name recognition than us, and competition from alternative treatments in the biopharmaceuticals market. If our potential products and technologies do not remain competitive, their value may be materially diminished. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are highly competitive. We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are pursuing peripheral arterial disease therapeutics that compete with our remaining potential products and technologies. For example, we are aware that AnGes MG, Centelion/Gencell SAS, NicOx, Sigma Tau, Inc., Nissan Chemical, Mitsubishi Pharmaceuticals, Kos Pharmaceuticals, Endovasc, Sangamo BioSciences, Inc. and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. have engaged or are engaged in developing biotechnology or pharmaceutical therapies. Many of these companies are addressing diseases that have been targeted by us directly or through our corporate partners, and many of them may have more experience in these areas and substantially greater financial, research, product development, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we have. Some companies also have greater name recognition than us and long-standing collaborative relationships. Our 22 competitive position depends on a number of factors, including safety, efficacy, reliability, marketing and sales efforts, and existence of competing products, and treatments and general economic conditions. If our remaining potential products and technologies do not remain competitive in light of these factors, their value may be materially diminished, which would adversely affect our business prospects. Our competitors, academic and research institutions or others may develop safer, more effective or less costly cardiovascular therapies, biologic delivery systems, gene-based therapeutics or chemical-based therapies. In addition, competitors may achieve superior patent protection or obtain regulatory approval or product commercialization earlier than we do. Any such developments could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse events in the field of cardiovascular therapies may negatively impact regulatory approval or public perception of our potential products and technologies. The FDA may become more restrictive regarding the conduct of clinical trials including cardiovascular therapies. This approach by the FDA could lead to delays in the timelines for regulatory review, as well as potential delays in the conduct of clinical trials. In addition, negative publicity may affect patients’ willingness to participate in clinical trials. If fewer patients are willing to participate in clinical trials, the timelines for recruiting patients and conducting such trials will be delayed. The commercial success of our potential products and technologies will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of our therapies for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Negative public reaction to our therapies in general could result in stricter labeling requirements of products, including any of our potential products, and could cause a decrease in the demand for products we may develop, if any. If we are unable to obtain rights to required technologies including poloxamer, proprietary gene sequences, proteins or other technologies, we will be unable to operate our business. Our remaining potential products involve multiple component technologies, many of which may be patented by others. For example, our potential products can use poloxamers, proprietary gene sequences, proteins or other technologies some of which have been, or may be, patented by others. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses or acquire rights to those poloxamers, gene sequences, proteins or other technologies. We may not be able to obtain a license or acquire rights to those technologies on reasonable terms, or at all. As a consequence, we may be prevented from developing potential products or we may have to make cumulative royalty payments to several companies. These cumulative royalties would reduce amounts paid to us or could make our potential products too expensive to develop or market. From time to time, we may engage in preliminary discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of technologies, products or product candidates. Even if we are successful in acquiring technologies, products or product candidates, we may experience difficulties in and costs associated with the assimilation of technologies, products, product candidates, operations and personnel acquired, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the subsequent loss of key personnel. If we are unable to acquire or obtain rights to technologies, products or product candidates necessary for our business, our business would be harmed. 23 We rely on patents and other proprietary rights to protect our intellectual property and any inability to protect our intellectual property rights would adversely impact our business. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, proprietary know-how, and nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We file patent applications to protect processes, practices and techniques related to our potential products that are significant to the development of our business. We own or have exclusive rights to 39 issued United States patents and 45 granted foreign patents. We own or have exclusive rights to approximately 12 pending patent applications in the United States and 34 foreign pending patent applications. Our patent applications may not be approved. Any patents granted now or in the future may be invalidated or offer only limited protection against potential infringement and development by our competitors of competing products. Moreover, our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our potential products either in the United States or in international markets. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect, in part, through proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. Our proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants contain industry standard provisions requiring such individuals to assign to us, without additional consideration, any intellectual property conceived or reduced to practice by them while employed or retained by us, subject to customary exceptions. Proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and others may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, our trade secrets may become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Any failure to protect our intellectual property would significantly impair our competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations and business. We could become subject to litigation regarding our intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. In previous years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Competitors in the biotechnology industry may use intellectual property litigation against us to gain advantage. In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation, if successful, also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our potential products that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign our potential products that use the technology. We may also be required in the future to initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights to protect such rights or determine the scope or validity of our intellectual property or the rights of our competitors. The pursuit of these claims could result in significant expenditures and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and we may not have sufficient cash and manpower resources to pursue any such claims. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we prevail in the dispute, would be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and the diversion of technical and management personnel and could require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from developing and selling our potential products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 We may experience delays in the commercial introduction, manufacture or regulatory approval of our potential products as a result of failure to comply with FDA manufacturing practices and requirements. Drug-manufacturing facilities regulated by the FDA must comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements, as well as maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of biologics also must comply with the FDA’s general biological product standards and may be subject to state regulation as well. Such manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed as part of the product approval process before being utilized for commercial manufacturing. Noncompliance with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions by the FDA would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue clinical trials, commercialize our potential products and adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we or any of our existing or future contract manufacturers will attain or maintain compliance with current or future good manufacturing practice requirements and the FDA could suspend or further delay our clinical trials, the commercial introduction and manufacture of our potential products or place restrictions on our ability to conduct clinical trials or commercialize our potential products, including the mandatory withdrawal of the potential product from the clinical trials. Our research and development processes involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive materials and produce waste products that could subject us to unanticipated environmental liability and would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future or that any of our operations, business or assets will not be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. If we are unable to complete our assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting within the required time periods as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or in the course of such assessments identify and report material weaknesses in our controls, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our current non-affiliated market capitalization qualifies us as a non-accelerated filer. As such, we are required to comply with the Section 404 requirements beginning with the fiscal year that ends June 30, 2008. We intend to diligently and vigorously assess (and enhance as may be appropriate) our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements. We anticipate expending significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404, however, there is a risk that we will not 25 comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. In addition, the very limited size of our organization could lead to conditions that could be considered material weaknesses, such as those related to segregation of duties, that is possible in larger organizations but significantly more difficult in smaller organizations. Also, controls related to our general information technology infrastructure may not be as comprehensive as in the case of a larger organization with more sophisticated capabilities and more extensive resources. It is not clear how such circumstances should be interpreted in the context of an assessment of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to implement required new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, which may result in our independent registered public accounting firm issuing a qualified or adverse report on our internal control and/or management’s assessment thereof. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include anti-takeover provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that enable our management to attempt to resist a takeover unless it is deemed by management and our Board of Directors to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Those provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. Our Board of Directors may also choose to adopt further anti-takeover measures without stockholder approval. The existence and adoption of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The concentration of ownership among our executive officers, directors and their affiliates may delay or prevent a change in our corporate control. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own or control in excess of approximately 22% of outstanding common shares, warrants or options to purchase common stock, with approximately 15% of outstanding common shares, warrants and options to purchase common stock held by Perseus-Soros BioPharmaceutical Fund, L.P. As a result, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent an outside party from acquiring or merging with us, which could in turn reduce our stock price. If our facilities were to experience an earthquake or other catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss such as fire, flood or earthquake. Our corporate headquarters and remaining business operations are located near major earthquake faults in Burlingame, California. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay development of our potential products and result in large expense to repair and replace our facilities. We currently do not maintain insurance policies protecting against catastrophic loss, except for fire insurance with coverage amounts normally obtained in our industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 