ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We have approximately $23.9 million in outstanding indebtedness due under our lines of credit, term notes and capital leases, and will be required to increase the amount borrowed under existing debt facilities, and may be required to seek additional debt or equity financing to fund our short-term working capital requirements, which borrowings and financing may not be available to us. On December 31, 2012, our subsidiary, SPY North America, had outstanding borrowings as follows: • $4.6 million outstanding (out of a total of $5.7 million available) under a credit line issued by BFI Business Finance (“BFI”), which line of credit provides for maximum borrowings of $7.0 million (the “BFI Line of Credit”); • $8.5 million outstanding (out of a total of $10.0 million available) under a line of credit issued by Costa Brava Partnership III, L.P. (“Costa Brava”), which line of credit provides for maximum borrowings of $10.0 million (the “Costa Brava Line of Credit”); • $7.0 million term loan issued to Costa Brava; • $1.5 million aggregate term loans issued to Harlingwood (Alpha) LLC (“Harlingwood”) (the “Harlingwood Notes”); and • $2.1 million of unpaid accrued interest, added to the outstanding principal amounts due under term loans issued to Costa Brava and Harlingwood rather than paid in cash (sometimes referred to as “Accrued PIK Interest”). We will be required to maintain our ability to borrow the full amounts under the BFI Line of Credit and the Costa Brava Line of Credit, and anticipate that we will be required to increase our outstanding borrowings under these lines in the short term up to their maximum availability, to fund our short-term working capital requirements and continue as a going concern. The amount we can borrow under the BFI Line of Credit is heavily dependent on our sales levels and eligible inventory, and the actual amount available for borrowing may be substantially less than $7.0 million. In addition, BFI may reduce our borrowing availability under the BFI Line of Credit in certain circumstances, including if BFI determines, in good faith, that SPY North America’s creditworthiness has declined, the collectability of its accounts receivables has deteriorated, the turnover of SPY North America’s inventory has changed materially or the liquidation value of such inventory has decreased. Further, BFI may declare SPY North America to be in default if SPY North America experiences a material adverse change in its business, financial condition or in its ability to perform its obligations under the BFI Line of Credit loan agreement. In addition, if we are unable to extend the maturity date of all of our Costa Brava and Harlingwood borrowings at least a year before their maturity date on April 1, 2014, BFI may determine such inability to be a material adverse change, and therefore terminate the BFI Line of Credit and declare all amounts thereunder due and payable. In the event we are unable to access available borrowings under the BFI Line of Credit or Costa Brava Line of Credit, we will likely be unable to fund our short-term working capital requirements or otherwise continue as a going concern. The Chairman of our board of directors, Seth Hamot, is the president and sole member of Roark, Rearden & Hamot, which is the sole general partner of Costa Brava. Fir Geenen, a member of our board of directors, is the manager of the limited liability company that is the manager of Harlingwood. Costa Brava and Harlingwood are major shareholders of the Company with common stock ownership of 48.4% and 5.4%, respectively, or 52.1% and 12.8% on an as converted basis, respectively, at December 31, 2012. -14- Most of our outstanding indebtedness is due and payable on April 1, 2014 and if not extended on or before its maturity date, we expect to be unable to pay such indebtedness when due. If we are unable to extend the maturity date, or otherwise restructure such indebtedness, we will be in default and will need to raise additional capital to continue our operations. At December 31, 2012, we had total borrowings from Costa Brava of approximately $17.5 million due and payable on April 1, 2014, approximately $4.6 million in total borrowings from BFI due and payable on February 14, 2014, unless renewed, and approximately $1.5 million payable to Harlingwood due and payable on April 1, 2014. We anticipate needing to increase our borrowings under the BFI Line of Credit and Costa Brava Line of Credit to the maximum amount permitted, and further increase our borrowings under the Costa Brava debt and Harlingwood Notes in the amount of additional Accrued PIK Interest due, thereby increasing the aggregate amount of indebtedness due and payable on or before April 2014. We do not anticipate generating sufficient revenue and profit to repay these borrowings in full when due. Therefore, we will need to seek renewal of the BFI Line of Credit at its next annual renewal in February 2014, and to extend the April 2014 maturity dates of the Costa Brava and Harlingwood indebtedness. If we are unable to renew the BFI Line of Credit or extend the maturity dates of the Costa Brava and Harlingwood indebtedness, we will be required to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financing to continue our operations. No assurances can be given that any such financing will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. At this time, we do not have any commitments for alternative financings or for an extension of the maturity dates of the Costa Brava or Harlingwood indebtedness. The inability to obtain debt or equity financing in a timely manner and in amounts sufficient to fund our operations, if necessary, would have an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The level of our future capital needs are uncertain, and we may need to raise additional funds in the next twelve months which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flow from operations, including during the year ended December 31, 2012. We anticipate that we will need additional capital during the next twelve months to support our planned operations. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the acceptance of and demand for our products; • the costs associated to maintain and grow our business; • the costs of developing, producing and selling new and/or existing products; • the costs of marketing the SPY® brand; and • working capital requirements, including working capital necessary to support growth, if any. We intend to continue borrowing under our existing BFI Line of Credit and Costa Brava Line of Credit, provided they remain available, and on terms acceptable to us. If our existing credit arrangements do not provide us with sufficient liquidity, we intend to raise capital through a combination of debt and/or equity financings. However, no assurances can be given that any such financing will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Economic conditions could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, including counterparty risk. Disruptions in the credit and financial markets and resulting decline in general economic and business conditions may adversely impact our access to capital through our BFI Line of Credit and other sources. The economic environment could cause lenders to fail to extend credit to us, and cause lenders and other counterparties who provide credit to us to breach their obligations to us, which could include, without limitation, lenders or other financial services companies failing to fund required borrowings under our credit arrangements, any of which would have an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, if we require additional financing as a result of the foregoing or other factors, turmoil in capital markets could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors (many of which we have little or no control over) such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. -15- We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $58.7 million and, during the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred a net loss of $7.2 million. We have not achieved profitability for a full fiscal year since our initial public offering. If we are unable to maintain or grow our revenues, or if we are unable to reduce operating expenses sufficiently, we will not be able to achieve profitability in the near future or at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to achieve profitability within a short period of time, or at all, or if we are unable to sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, our financial condition and stock price could be adversely affected. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. SPY North America granted a security interest in substantially all of its assets to BFI as security for its obligations under the BFI Line of Credit. SPY North America also has established bank accounts in BFI’s name into which collections on U.S. and Canadian accounts receivable and other collateral are deposited. BFI is entitled to sweep all amounts deposited into the BFI collateral accounts and apply such amounts to outstanding obligations under the BFI Line of Credit. Additionally, we guaranteed SPY North America’s obligations under the BFI Line of Credit and granted BFI a blanket security interest in substantially all of its assets as security for its obligations under its guaranty. If SPY North America defaults on any of its obligations under the BFI Line of Credit, BFI will be entitled to exercise remedies available to it resulting from such default, including increasing the applicable interest rate on all amounts outstanding under the BFI Line of Credit, declaring all amounts due thereunder immediately due and payable, assuming control of the BFI collateral accounts or any other assets pledged by us or SPY North America, and directing our customers to make payments directly to BFI. Our results of operations and financial condition would be harmed as a result of BFI’s exercise of its remedies in the event of a default. The restructure plan we announced in August 2012 could have an adverse impact on our business. During the third quarter of 2012, we commenced a restructuring intended to reduce spending and the level of our sales required to break even on an operating basis. These actions included (i) reducing staffing levels, (ii) changing the direct portion of our European business into a distribution model, and (iii) reducing anticipated marketing expenses. The staffing reductions included reductions in our shipping and warehousing, sales, marketing, and general and administrative staff by approximately 20 employees in North America and Europe. As a result of the restructuring: • our new distributors responsible for a number of key markets in Europe that were formerly direct customers serviced by SPY Europe and its independent sales representatives may not be successful in managing the existing dealer/retailer customers or growing the business. As such, there is a risk that our European sales could decline; • distributor sales are generally made at lower selling prices than in a direct selling model and therefore the future level of sales to these customers could decline and there is a risk that the reduced gross margin associated with the lower selling prices could offset the anticipated cost savings; • our sales growth or perceived brand value could be affected as a result of the anticipated reduction in spending on marketing programs; • management may have difficulties managing with a reduced level of personnel which could adversely affect the execution of its business plan or growth strategies; • international distributors who have previously been serviced by SPY Europe may be reluctant to be serviced primarily by SPY North America, and European distributors may have concerns about not having a fulfillment warehouse location in Europe; and • we may have insufficient staffing levels necessary to execute our business plan. As a result of these risks, our plans to achieve break even on an operating basis may not be successful. -16- Any failure to maintain ongoing sales through our independent sales representatives or maintain our international distributor relationships could harm our business. We sell our products to retail locations in the United States through our direct sales team and a network of independent sales representatives in the United States and Canada, and internationally through our international distributors. We rely on these independent sales representatives and distributors to provide customer contacts and market our products directly to our customer base. Our independent sales representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time, with limited notice. We currently do not have long-term agreements with most of our international distributors. Our ability to maintain or increase our sales will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with our independent sales representatives and our international distributors. It is possible that we may not be able to maintain or expand these relationships successfully or secure agreements with additional sales representatives or distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to develop and maintain our relationships with our independent sales representatives or our international distributors, and any failure of our independent sales representatives or international distributors to effectively market our products, could harm our sales. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully may be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management team. During 2011, we underwent a management restructuring and made a number of changes to our business operations. During 2012, we underwent a further restructuring of our business and management. In connection with these restructurings, we experienced a significant number of changes in our senior management in 2011 and 2012. Our recent restructurings may hurt our ability to recruit and retain employees. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including product design and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage our brand. Our future success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, design and sales and marketing personnel. We do not currently have key man insurance on any of our employees. If our management team is unable to execute our business strategy, our business may be harmed, which could adversely impact our branding strategy, product development strategy and sales. If our marketing efforts are not effective or if the amounts we are able to invest in our brands are insufficient as a result of recent restructuring actions, or if we have insufficient financial resources, our SPY® brand may not achieve the broad recognition necessary for our success. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our SPY® brand is essential to our future success. Accordingly, we intend to continue our brand development strategy through a variety of marketing initiatives designed to foster recognition for our brands in action sports and its attendant lifestyle cultures. If we are unsuccessful, these marketing expenses may never be offset, and we may be unable to maintain or increase our sales. Successful positioning of our brands depends largely on: • the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; • preservation of the relevancy and authenticity of our SPY® brand in our target demographic; • our ability to continue to provide innovative, stylish and high-quality products to our customers; and • managing the recognition and perception of our SPY® brand. To increase brand recognition, we must continue to spend significant amounts of time and resources on advertising and promotions. These expenditures may not result in a sufficient increase in net sales to cover such advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if brand recognition increases, our customer base may decline or fail to increase and our net sales may not continue at present levels or may decline. -17- Economic conditions and the resulting decline in consumer spending could continue to adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our performance depends on general economic conditions and their impact on consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending, both domestically and internationally, which weakened significantly beginning in 2008 and have and may continue to remain depressed. Our business and financial performance, including our sales and the collection of our accounts receivable, may continue to be adversely affected by the current weakness and any future weakness in economic activity and consumer spending in North America, Europe and in other regions of the world in which we do business. Further, economic factors such as a reduction in the availability of credit, increased or continuing unemployment levels, higher fuel and energy costs, rising interest rates, adverse conditions in the housing markets, financial market volatility, recession, reduced consumer confidence, savings rates, acts of terrorism, major epidemics and other factors affecting consumer spending behavior could adversely affect demand for our products. If consumer spending fails to increase, we may not be able to improve our sales. In addition, reduced consumer spending may cause us to lower prices or suffer increases in product returns, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. We may not be able to compete effectively, which will cause our sales and market share to decline. The action sports and lifestyle markets in which we compete are intensely competitive. Our SPY® brand competes with sunglass and goggle brands in various niches of the action sports market, including Oakley, Ray-Ban, Dragon Optical, Anon Optics, Von Zipper, Electric Visual, Arnette, Scott and Smith Optics. We also compete with broader lifestyle brands that offer eyewear products, such as Quiksilver, Fox and Maui Jim. In addition, our entry into the prescription frame market and performance sunglasses in 2011 and the Happy Lens™ in 2013 exposes us to various other competitors, most of which have been in this market for significant periods of time. In all markets, we compete primarily on the basis of fashion trends, design, performance, value, quality, brand recognition, marketing and distribution channels. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as marketing programs, product design and brand image. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition, longer operating history, more comprehensive lines of products and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales and marketing, research and development and strategic acquisitions. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. They also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or consumer preferences. -18- Our business may suffer if we fail to develop innovative and stylish products that are received favorably by our target customer audience. We are continuously evaluating potential entries into or expansion of new product offerings. In expanding our product offerings, we intend to leverage our sales and marketing platform and customer base to develop these opportunities. While we believe we have generally been successful promoting our SPY® branded products in our target domestic markets, we have not achieved the success desired in promoting our SPY® branded products in our target international markets or our previously licensed brands, such as O’Neill® , Melodies by MJB® or Margaritaville®. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for any new products that we may develop, such as our recent addition of prescription frame and performance sport sunglass product lines in 2011 and our Happy Lens™ products introduced in early 2013 and anticipated to be introduced in the future. In addition, expansion of our business into new product offerings has required and will require us to incur significant sales and marketing and research and development expenses, and, in the case of our prescription frame and performance sport sunglass product lines, may target different retail and distribution sales channels where our SPY® brand could be weaker. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand our product offerings include our ability to: • increase awareness and popularity of, and the demand for, our existing brands; • establish awareness of and customer demand for any new brands or products we may introduce or acquire; • attract, acquire and retain customers at a reasonable cost; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all of our product offerings; • maintain or improve our gross margins; • produce and receive product on-time and according to specification through third party manufacturers; • compete effectively in highly competitive markets; and • expand our international penetration through a traditional distribution model. We may not be able to address successfully any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable us to expand our business in a cost-effective or timely manner. If new products we develop are not received favorably by consumers, our reputation and the value of our brands could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of new products we develop or our inability to generate satisfactory net sales from any new products to offset their cost could harm our business. We will be unable to compete effectively and our sales may decrease if we fail to develop innovative and stylish products, anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards and fail to develop products and solutions that incorporate these trends, technologies and standards in a timely manner. The action sports and lifestyle markets are subject to constantly changing consumer preferences based on fashion and performance trends. Our success depends largely on the continued strength of our SPY® brand and our ability to continue to introduce innovative and stylish products that are accepted by consumers in our target markets. We must anticipate the rapidly changing preferences of consumers and provide products that appeal to their preferences in a timely manner while preserving the relevancy and authenticity of our SPY® brand. Decisions regarding product designs must be made months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If we do not continue to develop innovative and stylish products that provide greater performance and design attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by our targeted consumers, we may lose customer loyalty, which could result in declines in our sales, gross profit and market share. To date, we have introduced various sunglass and goggle products developed around various technologies and standards, and we may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop products around any new emerging technologies or industry standards. If an emerging technology or industry standard that we have identified or innovative technology that we have developed such as the Happy Lens™ fails to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop products using adopted standards, our products may not be accepted in our target markets or may have excess inventory or require inventory write-offs. As a result, our business would be materially harmed. -19- If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products or develop new products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy is to obtain endorsements from prominent athletes to sell our products, preserve the relevancy and authenticity of our brands and to support new products. We generally enter into endorsement contracts with our athletes for terms of one to three years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these athletes in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products in order to grow our brands or product categories. Further, we may not select athletes that are sufficiently popular with our target demographics or successful in their respective sports. Even if we do select successful athletes, we may not be successful in negotiating commercially reasonable terms with those individuals. If we are unable in the future to secure athletes or arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion which may not prove to be as effective as endorsements, or may adversely affect our ability to develop new products. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our sponsored athletes could harm our brands and adversely impact our business. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. The vast majority of our business is at once and therefore we do not have significant backlog. We place orders with our manufacturers for the vast majority of our products prior to the time we receive orders for these products from our customers because the product purchase lead times required by our manufacturers is generally longer than our customer order fulfillment requirements. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery, and to a lesser extent in the future to fulfill the remaining minimum purchase requirements under our supply agreement with LEM. We also maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand have historically, and may in the future result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could significantly impair our brand’s image and harm our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time our customers need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships and diminish brand loyalty, thereby harming our business. Our manufacturers must be able to continue to procure raw materials and we must continue to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers to sell our products profitably. The capacity of our manufacturers to manufacture our products is dependent in substantial part, upon the availability of raw materials used in the fabrication of sunglasses and goggles. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to procure from other vendors or to manufacture or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could harm our net sales, result of operations and reputation. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials and other production delays, which have resulted in, and may in the future result in, delays in deliveries of our products of up to several months. -20- Any interruption or termination of our relationships with our manufacturers could harm our business. During 2012, we purchased the majority of our sunglass products from one manufacturer in China and to a lesser extent from one manufacturer in Italy (LEM S.r.l. or “LEM”) and several other manufacturers in China. In the future, we anticipate that we will purchase a greater portion of our sunglasses sourced from several manufacturers in China. The vast majority of our goggle products are manufactured by Korea OGK Co. Ltd. (“OGK”) in China. We expect to continue to manufacture a majority of our goggles through OGK for the foreseeable future. In addition, the polar lens for our new Happy Lens™ products are currently available from only one supplier located in France. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we will not experience difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs and failures to comply with our requirements for the proper utilization of our intellectual property. In addition, our international manufacturers are subject to economic, regulatory and market conditions in their respective countries. Most of our manufacturers have extended credit to us and there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If our relationship with any of our manufacturers is interrupted or terminated for any reason, including the failure of any manufacturer to perform its obligations to us, we would need to locate alternative manufacturing sources. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, and we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources in a manner that would enable us to meet our customer orders on a timely basis or on satisfactory commercial terms. If we are required to change any of our major manufacturers, we would likely experience increased costs, substantial disruptions and delays in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of net sales. We face international business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a significant portion of our sales are to customers outside of the United States and virtually all of our inventory is purchased from foreign suppliers. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws in foreign countries in which we have employees and consultants; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels and suppliers; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting customer accounts receivable; • ability to finance our foreign operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions in which our manufacturers are located, such as China and Italy, which among other things, may make expose the operations of our manufacturers to risk and increase our manufacturing costs; • trade restrictions, higher tariffs or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and affect our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • difficulties in obtaining the protections of the intellectual property laws of other countries. Any of these factors could reduce our sales, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses. -21- Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars. We sell most of our products in Canada in transactions denominated in the Canadian dollar. During 2012, we sold to our direct customers and distributors in Europe in transactions denominated in Euros. Beginning January 1, 2013, we began to sell to our European distributors in U.S. dollars and no longer sell to direct retail customers. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies such as the Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen or other foreign currencies in countries in which we have significant sales, then the price that our customers are willing to pay may require renegotiation in order for our distributors or customers to achieve their desired gross margin targets. Additionally, we purchase products from LEM in transactions denominated in Euros and some of our manufacturing suppliers purchase raw materials for our products, such as the Happy Lens™, denominated in foreign currencies. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro in the future, our cost of products purchased from LEM or raw materials sourced from Europe to Chinese manufacturing suppliers, including the Happy Lens™, could increase. Additionally, the expenses of our wholly owned subsidiary SPY Europe could also increase. Because the effect of foreign exchange rates on our financial results can be significant, we have engaged in the past, and could in the future engage in, certain hedging activities to mitigate the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results over time. Our hedging activities have in the past reduced, but have not eliminated, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. The degree to which our financial results are affected has depended in part upon the effectiveness of our hedging activities. As of December 31, 2012, we were not engaged in any foreign currency hedging activities nor do we have any plans to do so in the future. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, or upon expiration of our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales or increase our costs. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and trade dress laws to protect our proprietary rights with respect to product designs, product research and trademarks. Although our new Happy Lens™ products have a patent pending lens technology, the patent has not yet been approved. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be effective and may be challenged by third parties. Despite our efforts, third parties may have violated and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could imitate our products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby potentially harm our competitive position and our financial condition. We are also susceptible to injury from parallel trade (i.e. gray markets) and counterfeiting of our products, which could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products from premium materials. Infringement claims and lawsuits likely would be expensive to resolve and would require substantial management time and resources. Any adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret, could require us to obtain licenses from third parties, could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which would harm our results of operations. Since we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in China and Italy, we also are dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the U.S. Although we will continue to devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be successful or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not be significant. We have been unable to register SPY® as a trademark for our products in a few selected markets in which we do business. We currently have SPY® trademark applications pending for wearing apparel products in certain markets. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States and, if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights or resolve any conflicts, our results of operations may be harmed. -22- We may be subject to claims by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time, we may receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. Any intellectual property lawsuit, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease sales or to develop redesigned products or brands. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to redesign our products or obtain a license, we may have to discontinue a particular product offering. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to manage any growth that we might experience, our business could be harmed and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address this growth. If we experience unexpected growth in our operations, our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded and we may have to use or train and manage an increasing number of employees in contrast to the restructure plan we announced in August 2012 which contemplated having a reduced number of employees, any of which will distract our management team from our business plan and involve increased expenses. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth and spending effectively. These challenges may include: • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; and • ensuring the distribution of our products in a timely manner. Our eyewear products and business may subject us to product liability claims or other litigation, which are expensive to defend, distracting to our management and may require us to pay damages. Due to the nature of our products and the activities in which our products may be used, we may be subject to product liability claims or other litigation, including claims for serious personal injury, breach of contract, shareholder litigation or other litigation or governmental actions such as by the U.S. Federal Food and Drug Administration or U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large claims could harm our business by causing us to incur legal fees, distracting our management or causing us to pay damage awards. In the event we are unable to remedy any deficiency we identify in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, management is required to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any deficiency that may be identified for which there are no compensating controls in place, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. As part of this continuous process, we may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If any deficiency we may find from time to time is not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the rules thereunder, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. -23- Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates due to numerous factors. Our stock is relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. For example, between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012, our stock has traded as high as $2.25 and as low as $1.01. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the public float that exists in our common stock from time to time. For example, although as of December 31, 2012, we have approximately 13.1 million shares outstanding, approximately 9.1 million, or approximately 69.7% of those shares are held by four stockholders, with Costa Brava, The Integrity Brands Fund, L.P. and Harlingwood owning approximately 48.4%, 10.2%, and 5.4% of our outstanding shares, respectively, excluding 1.0 million and 1.1 million shares which Costa Brava and Harlingwood may acquire, respectively through conversion of outstanding debt into shares of common stock. If any of those investors were to decide to sell a substantial portion of their respective shares, it would place substantial downward pressure on our stock price. The limited trading in our stock may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. We also have 2,691,633 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which 1,411,629 were fully vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2012. Additionally, we have 2,100,586 and 244,000 shares reserved for issuance upon the conversion of outstanding convertible debt and warrants, respectively. Additionally, existing and future Accrued PIK Interest on the Harlingwood debt may also convert into common shares. Most of our outstanding shares may be sold on the open market, subject to certain volume and other limitations on shares held by affiliates pursuant to Rule 144 pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Our common stock now trades on the over-the-counter market, which may impact the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Selling our stock may be difficult because the limited trading market for our shares on the over-the-counter market could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices of our shares, as well as lower trading volume. Our average trading volume for the quarter ending December 31, 2012 was less than 1,500 shares per trading day. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may be limited as a result of limited trading volume. Our common stock is subject to “penny stock” rules. Our stock is currently defined as a “penny stock” under Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. “Penny stocks” are subject to Rules 15g-2 through 15g-7 and Rule 15g-9, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. Among other things, for transactions covered by these rules, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, these rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. To the extent our common stock is subject to the penny stock regulations, the market liquidity for our shares will be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of many factors, including changes in demand for our products, our effectiveness in managing our suppliers and costs, the timing of the introduction of new products seasonality and weather patterns. Historically, we have experienced greater sales in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year as a result of the seasonality of our products and the markets in which we sell our products, and our first and fourth fiscal quarters have traditionally been our weakest operating quarters due to seasonality. In addition, we generally have sold more of our sunglass products in the first half of the fiscal year and a majority of our goggle products in the last half of the fiscal year. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our sales will continue. As a result, our net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You should not rely on period-to-period or year over year comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our sales and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. -24- Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales and based on acquisitions we may complete or licensing agreements we may enter into. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales and the vast majority of our sales are at once since we do not have significant backlog. Because of their significant common stock ownership, some of our existing stockholders are able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. Four of our stockholders and affiliates controlled approximately 70.6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. Directors Seth Hamot, John Pound and Fir Geenen have direct or indirect control over approximately 48.9%, 10.5% and 5.5%, respectively, of our common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2012 (i) Mr. Hamot may convert a portion of a promissory note that he beneficially owns through Costa Brava into 1.0 million shares of our common stock, which equates to approximately an additional 3.8% of our currently outstanding common stock and (ii) Mr. Geenen may convert a portion of a promissory note that he beneficially owns through Harlingwood into 1.1 million shares of our common stock, which equates to approximately an additional 7.4% of our currently outstanding common stock and additionally future Accrued PIK Interest on the Harlingwood debt may also be converted into common stock. Our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates own or control, in the aggregate, approximately 68.6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. The interest of these stockholders may differ from that of minority holders. These stockholders are able to exercise influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of the company or other transactions that non-controlling stockholders may not deem to be in their best interests. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving our company; • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; and • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 