Risk Factors” section, it is difficult for us to predict with meaningful precision and accuracy our future market share in relevant geographic areas and customer segments, the drop in our customer’s consumption which could result in a reduction of our revenue market share, the speed with which change in our market share or prevailing prices for services may occur or the effects of competition. Those effects could be material and adverse to our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Auction Terms and Conditions established strict coverage and network deployment commitments which will require significant capital expenditures on the part of Personal in the near future. The Auction Terms and Conditions established strict coverage and network deployment commitments which will require significant capital expenditures on the part of Personal. Certain external factors, some of which are described in this Risk Factor section, could significantly affect our ability to timely and properly meet the demanding commitments established by the Terms and Conditions. In addition, through Resolution No. 83/14 the SC partially awarded to Personal the frequency bands integrating Lot 8 of the Spectrum Public Auction established by SC Resolution No. 38/14. The awarded frequency bands are the 1,730-1,745 MHz and 2,130-2,145 MHz bands, while the 713-723 MHz and 768-778 MHz bands have not been awarded. The payment for Lot 8 was made on account of the single and total price offered for the referred Lot. Personal requested that the awarding of the frequency bands for the SCMA Services forming Lot 8 should be completed, and it made the corresponding reservation of rights, stating that the demanding commitments established by the Auction Terms and Conditions be computed as from the date in which the remaining frequency bands were awarded. If those frequency bands were not awarded to Personal, the Auction commitments should be redefined to establish which commitments correspond to the frequency bands which were effectively awarded. However, despite Personal PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 25 Table of Contents defense of its position, we cannot provide assurance that the commitments will be modified to meet Personal’s request. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory and Legal Framework—Regulatory Framework—Licenses granted as of December 31, 2014—Spectrum.” The recently enacted Law No. 27,078 — “Argentine Digital Law” (“LAD”) substantially modified the telecommunications regulatory framework, the impact is uncertain. On December 19, 2014, Law No. 27,078 (the “Argentina Digital Law” or LAD) came into force. The new Law declares the development of the ICT and its associated resources to be in the public interest and incorporates major amendments to the regulatory legal framework applicable to the provision of telecommunication services in Argentina. The Law also vests to the PEN with broad powers for its regulation. As of the date of this Annual Report, is still pending the regulation to implement the provisions of the Law. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory and Legal Framework—Regulatory Framework—Rates—Other Regulations—Law No. 27,078 (LAD).” As a result, there is uncertainty regarding which will be the interpretations of the new regulatory framework for the Argentine telecommunications industry regarding price regulation, provision of infrastructure to other operators, sanctionary regime, asymmetric regulation for dominant operators, among others, as well as the operational, economic and financial impact that the LAD will have on the Telecom Group and its competitors in the following years. Actual or perceived health risks or other problems relating to mobile handsets or transmission masts could lead to litigation or decreased mobile communications usage. The effects of, and any damage caused by, exposure to an electromagnetic field were and are the subject of careful evaluations by the international scientific community, but until now there is no scientific evidence of harmful effects on health. We cannot rule out that exposure to electromagnetic fields or other emissions originating from wireless handsets will not be identified as a health risk in the future. Personal complies with the international security standards established by the World Health Organization and Argentine regulations -which are similar- and mandatory for all Argentine mobile operators. Our mobile business may be harmed as a result of any future alleged health risk. For example, the perception of these health risks could result in a lower number of customers, reduced usage per customer or potential consumer liability. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory and Legal Framework—Regulatory Framework—Rates—Other Regulations—Regulation applicable to mobile antenna radiation.” Operational risks could adversely affect our reputation and our profitability. Telecom faces operational risks inherent in its business, including those resulting from inadequate internal and external processes, fraud, inability to perform certain operations required by the judiciary due to inadequate technology, employee errors or misconduct, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to document transactions properly or systems failures. In addition, unauthorized access to the Company’s information systems or institutional sites could cause the loss or improper use of confidential information, unauthorized changes in the Company’s information and network systems or alterations to the Company’s information published on these sites. These events could result in direct or indirect losses, technical failures in the Company’s ability to provide its services, inaccurate information for decision making, adverse legal and regulatory proceedings, and harm our reputation and operational effectiveness, among others. Telecom’s suppliers of goods and services are contractually obliged to comply with laws and regulations (including tax, labor, social security, anti-corruption, money laundering standards, etc.). Additionally, our suppliers shall comply with a set of conduct standards such as the Code of Ethics, established by the Telecom Group as well as they have to require its compliance to its employees and subcontractors. Despite these legal safeguards and monitoring efforts made in the Telecom Group in relation to its suppliers, we cannot ensure that they will comply with all applicable standards. As a result, Telecom could be adversely affected in a monetary, criminal or reputational way, despite our contractual rights to claim for compensations for damages that they could cause to us. PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 26 Table of Contents Telecom has Risk Management practices at the highest levels (including a Risk Management Committee) designed to detect, manage and monitor the evolution of these kinds of operational risks. However, there is no guarantee that these measures will be successful in effectively mitigating the operational risks that Telecom faces and such failures could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and could harm its reputation. Nortel, as our controlling shareholder, and Sofora, as Nortel’s controlling shareholder, exercise control over significant matters affecting us. Nortel is our direct controlling shareholder. Sofora owns 100% of the common stock of Nortel, which represents 78.38% of the total capital stock of Nortel as of the date of this Annual Report. Sofora is 51% owned by Telecom Italia Group, 32% owned by W de Argentina—Inversiones and 17% owned by Fintech Telecom LLC. Through their ownership of Sofora and the Shareholders’ Agreement between them, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina—Inversiones have, as a general matter, the ability to determine the outcome of any action requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the ability to elect a majority of directors and members of the Supervisory Committee. In addition, we have been informed that, pursuant to the Shareholders’ Agreement entered into between the Telecom Italia Group and the Werthein Group, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina—Inversiones have agreed among themselves to certain matters relating to the election of our directors and those of Nortel and Sofora and have given W de Argentina—Inversiones veto power with respect to certain matters relating to us. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—Shareholders’ Agreement.” We have engaged in and will continue to engage in transactions with these shareholders of Nortel and, at the present time, of Sofora, and their affiliates. Certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest between these shareholders as indirect owners of Telecom Argentina’s capital stock and as parties with interests in these related party contracts. Nevertheless, all related party transactions are made on an arm’s length basis and those which exceed 1% of Telecom Argentina’s shareholders’ equity are subject to a prior approval process established by Law No. 26,831 and require involvement of the Audit Committee and/or an opinion of two independent valuation firms as well as subsequent approval by the Board of Directors to verify that the agreement could reasonably be considered to be in accordance with normal and habitual market practice. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” On November 14, 2013 Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Telecom Italia International N.V. (collectively, the “Sellers”) and Tierra Argentea S.A. (“Tierra Argentea”, a company controlled by the Sellers) announced their acceptance of the offer made by Fintech to acquire Telecom Italia’s controlling stake in Telecom Argentina owned by the Sellers through their subsidiaries Sofora, Nortel, and Tierra Argentea. On October 25, 2014, Telecom Italia S.p.A. announced the acceptance of an offer by Fintech to amend and restate the agreement announced on November 14, 2013. As a result: 1) on October 29, 2014 Telecom Italia International N.V. transferred 17% of the capital stock of Sofora to Fintech; 2) it was confirmed that the transfer of the 51% controlling interest in Sofora is subject to the prior regulatory approval of the SC and closing of the transaction will not occur until such approval is obtained. It is expected that the transfer of such controlling interest will take place within the next two and a half years. If the transaction is consummated, Fintech will have the ability to exert significant control over us, including the right to nominate, through our parent companies, Sofora and Nortel, the majority of our directors pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement. See “Item 7—Major Shareholder and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders of Nortel.” Our operations and financial condition could be affected by union negotiations. In Argentina, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. In recent years, the demands of our labor organizations have increased mainly as a result of PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 27 Table of Contents the increase in the cost of living, which was affected by increased inflation, higher tax pressure over salaries and the consequent decline in the population’s purchasing power. If labor organization claims continue or are sustained, this could result in increased costs, greater conflict in the negotiation process and strikes (including general strikes and strikes of the company employees and the contractors and subcontractors’ employees) that may adversely affect our operations. See “Item 6—Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations.” The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector or changes in labor regulations, which would increase our cost of doing business. The Argentine government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees (including higher levels of severance payments to former employees dismissed without proper cause). We cannot guarantee that the Government will not adopt measures, as it did in the past, which will increase salaries or require us to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and, among other things, in the absence of increases of regulated rates in our fixed services segments, continue reducing our profit margins. Moreover, there are certain bills pending in the Argentine Congress regarding modifications to labor regulations such as increasing severance payments or considering amounts paid to employees that are currently not subject to social security contributions as part of the normal and usual employees’ salaries, increasing liability of the companies for the contractor’s and sub-contractor’s employees in outsourced tasks and the implementation of a regime that would entitle employees to participate in the profits of companies that employ them. If such bills are approved, the modifications in current labor regulations and conditions could materially impact our relationship with our employees by increasing the labor cost and in some cases decreasing the flexibility to provide services to our clients. The Regulatory Bodies may impose increased penalties on Telecom Argentina and Personal, which could result, in some circumstances, in the revocation of our licenses. The Regulatory Bodies have increased the number of cases and the amount of fines applied to Telecom Argentina mainly in connection with alleged delays in repairing defective fixed lines and/or installing new fixed lines. Additionally, the Regulatory Bodies have initiated various administrative procedures against Telecom Argentina and Personal related to temporary interruptions of services caused by various incidents. Lately the authorities have threatened Personal with the applications of fines and the obligation to pay compensation to the clients involved. In many of these cases, we believe that the Authorities are misinterpreting the legal framework of our telecommunication license or exceeding the legal terms of the service provision. Neither final administrative nor judicial decisions on these cases have not been made yet. Also, new regulations such as SC Resolution No. 5/13 regarding the quality of telecommunication services could further increase penalties imposed by the Regulatory Bodies. SC Resolution No. 5/13, issued in July 2013, has set new benchmarks for the quality of services provided by telecommunications operators, including Telecom Argentina and Personal, setting standards that are high as compared to international standards, especially, considering the difficulties in obtaining municipal authorization to install antennas in the mobile business (See “Item 4—Information on the Company—The Business—Personal Mobile Services and Núcleo Mobile Services— Mobile Telecommunication Services in Argentina—Personal—Personal’s Network and Equipment”). This resolution has a gradual implementation schedule. Telecom Argentina, Personal and other telecommunications operators have submitted technical comments for a review of the standards. However, if the technical comments are not taken into account, compliance with the standards could be difficult which may result in penalties for telecommunications operators, including Telecom Argentina and Personal, affecting our ability to execute our business plan since they could involve limitations to acquire new clients or restrictions to apply rates increases, among others. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory and Legal Framework— Regulatory Framework— SC Resolution No. 5/13.” PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, according to the Auction Terms and Conditions for the awarding of frequency bands approved by SC Resolution No. 38/14 for mobile operators, repeated or persistent breaches of obligations related to quality indicators of services provided under the terms of the Regulation for the Quality of Telecommunications Services approved by SC Resolution No. 5/13, qualifies as one of the circumstances under which the authorization to use radio electric spectrum (as defined in the Auction) will be revocable. We cannot foresee whether the Regulatory Bodies based on the increased number of administrative complaints will seek to apply significant sanctions to Telecom Argentina or Telecom Personal, including the revocation of some of our licenses, any of which could have an adverse effect on Telecom Argentina or Personal´s operations, financial situation, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory and Legal Framework—Regulatory Framework—Administrative complaint in connection with the service cuts affecting Telecom Argentina and Personal´s customers.” We are involved in various legal proceedings which could result in unfavorable decisions and financial penalties for us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. We cannot be certain that these claims will be resolved in our favor. Responding to the demands of litigation may divert Management’s time and attention and financial resources. As of December 31, 2014, the Company recorded provisions that it estimates are sufficient to cover those contingencies considered probable. See Notes 2 and 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In recent years, certain changes in the treatment of employment matters under Argentine law have created new incentives for individuals to pursue employment-related litigation in Argentine courts. Moreover, on May 21, 2014 the National Labor Court of Appeals ruled that nominal annual interest rate for personal loans with free use of the Argentine National Bank for 49 to 60 month term (currently 3% per month), shall be applied for matters under the Buenos Aires City Labor Courts, including those with pending sentences, instead of the monthly average interest rate for loans of the Argentine National Bank (currently 2.055% per month). This new disposition represents an increase in interest rate that was reflected prospectively in the estimation of the labor claims provisions. An additional risk exists since the court might intend to apply such rate retroactively to labor credits not yet acknowledged by a court sentence, which could result also in an increase of our financial costs. Although, there are solid legal arguments against the retroactive application of the new interest rate, if a disadvantageous resolution prevails, we estimate that it will not have a significant impact on the Group´s financial position, result of operations and cash flows. The Company is also exposed to claims of employees of contractors and subcontractors and commercial agents claiming direct or indirect responsibility of Telecom based on a broad interpretation of the rules of labor law. Also, the Company is subject to various lawsuits initiated by some employees and former employees who claim wage differences arguing different reasons. The Argentine Supreme Court in a case against “Cervecería y Malteria Quilmes” ruled that “non-remunerative” items resulting from collective bargaining agreements should be considered as salaries for all purposes. Such ruling creates a negative precedent in this matter and could imply increased labor costs for us. In the past, Personal was subject, and is currently subject, to claims by former representatives (commercial agents) who end their business relationship by making claims for reasons that are not always justified by contract terms. Personal maintains agreements with VAS suppliers. Amounts billed to its customers resulting from these agreements are recorded as Personal’s revenues while commissions paid to VAS suppliers as a percentage of services billed to customers are recorded as expenses (Costs of VAS). Personal’s customers can subscribe to VAS services directly from the VAS supplier, who reports to Personal the services it provides to their customers. During 2013 and 2014 there was a significant increase of VAS revenues. Customers and consumers’ trade unions brought up different claims against Personal regarding these services. Although Personal has taken actions in connection with the VAS suppliers in order to reduce risks regarding the provision of non-authorized services to its customers, we cannot assure you that new and significant claims regarding VAS services will not be presented in the future. PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 29 Table of Contents By the end of 2014, Personal has started the implementation of a new system to monitor the customer subscriptions to VAS, which is expected to be completed in year 2015. Recently, there has been a growing trend of sanctions imposed by the Regulatory Bodies on Telecom Argentina for technical reasons, mainly related to the delay in repairing defective lines and/or installing new lines. In addition, there have been an increased number of sanctions on Telecom Argentina and Personal relating to service failures. Although penalties are appealed in the administrative stage, if the appeals are not solved in our favor in administrative or judicial stage for amounts over those recorded, or the penalties imposed by the CNC are increased in number and /or cost, it could have an adverse effect on our financial situation, results of our operations and cash flows. In 2009, the environmental agency required Telecom Argentina to be registered in the National Registry of Generators and Operators of Hazardous Waste as a result of alleged problems with our liquid drainage at an underground chamber (as it had been previously required to do in 1999). This registration would require Telecom Argentina to pay an annual fee calculated in accordance with a formula that takes into consideration the extent of the hazard and the quantity of the waste. Telecom Argentina filed a request for administrative review seeking to obtain rejection of the environmental agency’s ordinance. We cannot guarantee that the rejection will be obtained. In addition, changes in environmental legislation or the evolution of products and services we offer could require Telecom Argentina to be registered in the National Registry of Generators and Operators of Hazardous Waste. In that case or if the rejection of the environmental agency’s ordinance is not obtained, Telecom Argentina would face increased costs which may include retroactive fees. Telecom Argentina and Personal may face increased risk of employment, commercial, regulatory, tax and customers’ proceedings, among others. If this occurs, we cannot guarantee that it will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, despite the provisions that the Company has recorded to cover from these matters. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” The enforcement of the New Law for the Promotion of Registered Labor and Prevention of Labor Fraud may have a material adverse effect on us. On June 2, 2014 Law No. 26,940 Ley de Promoción del Trabajo Registrado y Prevención del Fraude Laboral was published in the Official Gazette. The new norm, among other topics, establishes a Public Record of Employers with Labor Sanctions (“the Record”) and defines a series of labor and social security infringements by which an employer shall be included in said record. The employers included in the Record shall be subject to different types of sanctions, such as: the inability to access public programs, benefits or subsidies, to access public banking credit, or to enter into contracts and licenses of property owned by the National government, or to participate in the awarding of concessions of public services and licenses. In turn, the employers who are repeat offenders for the same infringement for which they were added to the Record within a 3-year period after the first final sanction decision, shall not be able to deduct from the Income Tax the expenses related to their employees while the employers are included in the Record. This new regulation applies both to Telecom and its contractors and subcontractors, who could initiate claims to Telecom for direct or indirect responsibility. Depending on the way the Labor Ministry applies the new Law, the effects of this new labor regulation for the companies based in Argentina, including Telecom may vary and cannot be predicted. The enforcement of regulations aimed at protecting consumers, including the new regime of conflict resolutions concerning consumer relations, may have an adverse effect on us. The Consumer Protection Law No. 24,240 (the “Consumer Protection Law”) establishes a series of principles and rules for the protection of consumers and users. It states a sanctionary proceeding which foresees a conciliatory process before imposing any sanctions. The Consumer Protection Law applies to the telecommunications industry and to any other industry in which consumers and users are involved. Telecom Argentina and Personal have received several customer complaints in connection with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Law that were filed with different law enforcement bodies PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 30 Table of Contents (national, provincial or municipal). In the last few years there was also an increase in legal actions brought by consumer associations. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—General Proceedings—Consumer Trade Union Proceedings.” On September 19, 2014, the Argentine Congress passed Law No. 26,993 which approved a new Prior Mediation Service for Consumer Relations Conflict (COPREC). The purpose of this initiative is to give effective solutions to the consumers’ problems, by creating fast track proceedings. Law No. 26,993 introduces two essential changes: i) it establishes that fines imposed on the basis of Consumer Protection Law must be previously paid in order to be appealed and judicially challenged, and ii) it creates a compensation system for consumers, consisting of a mediation phase, and an administrative and/or judicial process that takes place before the Auditor of Consumer Relations or the Federal Justice for Consumers’ Relations. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory and Legal Framework—Legal Framework—New Conflict Resolution Regime for Consumer Relations Matters.” The new Regime is currently being implemented. As of the date of this Annual Report, we cannot foresee its effects on the Telecom Group. This situation may entail risks for Telecom Argentina and Personal concerning, among others, the prices charged for its services, the obligation to return amounts charged for its services or penalties which may be excessive in relation to the revenues for the services rendered. If such were the case, any of such consequences could have an adverse effect on our financial situation, results of our operations and cash flows. The BCRA has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina in the past; some restrictions currently exist and may increase in the future, which could prevent us from making payments on dividends and liabilities. In the past, the Argentine government has imposed a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures, including temporary restrictions on the free availability of funds deposited with banks and restrictions or limitations on the access to foreign exchange markets and transfers of funds abroad, including for purposes of paying principal and interest on debt, trade liabilities to foreign suppliers and dividend payments to foreign shareholders. Between the end of 2001 and 2002, the Argentine government implemented a unified exchange market (Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios — MULC) with significant regulations and restrictions for the purchase and transfer of foreign currency. Since late 2011 the Argentine government implemented a series of measures aimed to increase controls on the foreign trade and capital flows. To that effect, certain measures were implemented to control and limit the purchase of foreign currency, such as the prior approval of the AFIP for any purchase of foreign currency made by private companies and individuals for saving purposes. In addition, the BCRA expanded the controls and measures to make payments abroad accessing the local foreign exchange market, regarding trade payables and financial debt, and also established demanding procedures that must be met to pay certain trade payables with related parties. Although there are no regulations that prohibit making dividend payment to foreign shareholders, in practice authorities have substantially limited any purchase of foreign currency to pay dividends since these exchange controls were implemented. There can be no assurance that the BCRA or other government agencies will not increase controls and restrictions for making payments to foreign creditors or dividend payments to foreign shareholders, which would limit our ability to comply in a timely manner with payments related to our liabilities to foreign creditors or non-resident shareholders. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Foreign Investment and Exchange Controls in Argentina.” Pursuing the same objective, in October 2011 Decree No. 1,722 eliminated an exception for oil, gas and mining companies, and thus requires these companies to liquidate all their export receipts in the local foreign exchange market. Moreover, in October 2011 the National Insurance Bureau issued Resolution No. 36,162 imposing the obligation for insurance companies to repatriate all investments and liquid assets allocated outside Argentina. We cannot ensure that similar measures will not be implemented for other private companies or other sectors in the future. In addition, starting in February 2012 all import operations of goods and services must be filed and approved in advance by AFIP. Such procedure could also negatively affect our supply chain, generating delays in the provision of raw materials, equipment and handsets that are imported by our suppliers and/ or us. In the last case, the Company assumes trade payables in foreign currency with suppliers abroad, which require strict and complex approval procedures to access to foreign exchange market to make payments abroad. Moreover, as a result of the payment of the frequency bands PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 31 Table of Contents awarded to Personal in the Public Auction at the end of 2014, the Company reduced significantly the financial assets in foreign currency that it maintained abroad, thus reducing our capacity to use those assets to make direct payments to foreign suppliers and shareholders, if needed. Operations of our subsidiary Núcleo could be affected depending on the way the Paraguayan government calls for a public auction for additional frequency bands to provide mobile services through 4G technology. The provision of new mobile services through 4G technology will require the awarding of additional frequency bands in Paraguay (Band 1,700 MHz or AWS). As of the date of this Annual Report, there is no formal process initiated for this purpose. Neither a schedule for the frequency bands auction nor the conditions that the authorities will require to participate in the auction have been published. If the auction terms and conditions do not act as an incentive for competition and do not help to reduce the current concentration of the mobile telecommunication market (see “Item 4—Information on the Company—The Business—Competition.”) we cannot assure that the operational, economic and financial situation of Núcleo will not be negatively affected. Fluctuations in Telecom Argentina’s share price depend on various factors, some of which are outside of our control. The market price of our shares is subject to change due to various factors which are outside of our control such as changes in market expectations, changes in the economic, financial and political situation in Argentina, the way the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance (in exercise of shareholders’ rights that belong to ANSES, according to Decree No. 1,278/12) will exercise its political rights and manage its share ownership in Telecom Argentina, and changes in measures used by investors or analysts to value our stock or market trends unrelated to our performance and operations. We cannot predict when such external factors will affect our stock price or whether their effects will be positive or negative. In addition, currency fluctuations could impact the value of an investment in Telecom Argentina. Although Telecom Argentina’s ADSs listed on the New York Stock Exchange are U.S. dollar-denominated securities, they do not eliminate the currency risk associated with an investment in an Argentine company. PART I - ITEM 3 RISK FACTORS — RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TELECOM AND ITS OPERATIONS TELECOM ARGENTINA S.A. 32 Table of Contents 