Risk Factors” section, it is difficult for us to predict with meaningful precision and accuracy our future market share in relevant geographic areas and customer segments, the drop in our customer’s consumption which could result in a reduction of our revenue market share, the speed with which change in our market share or prevailing prices for services may occur or the effects of competition. Those effects could be material and adverse to our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the laws and regulations of the mobile industry could adversely affect us. The mobile industry is currently subject to an important set of regulations that has enabled the development of a high competitive and intense capital expenditure environment. Notwithstanding that, in 2011 a bill was presented to the lower Congress Chamber proposing a substantial change through the declaration of the mobile industry as a “public service”. That bill did not obtain the necessary support to be treated at the lower Congress Chamber. We cannot assure that similar initiatives will not be proposed in the future and will not obtain the approval of the National Congress. Future allocations of mobile frequency bands may affect the competitiveness of the Argentine mobile industry and could impact Personal’s competitive position within it. Telefónica Móviles Argentina S.A. returned to the Argentine government the frequency bands exceeding an aggregate 50 MHz, as a result of the combination of operations of Unifón and Movicom in 2004, in accordance with the current laws and pursuant to a plan to be subsequently issued. In 2005, the SC issued its plan relating to the return of those frequency bands although it did not stipulate how the returned bands would be reallocated or assigned to other operators. The launch of the auction to reassign the 850 MHz and 1900 MHz frequency bands returned by Telefónica Móviles Argentina S.A. because they exceeded their 50 MHz spectrum cap was postponed several times. Finally, SECOM launched the auction; which is expected to take place in May 2012. Personal is participating in the spectrum auction process and expects to acquire additional spectrum to complete its “Spectrum cap” throughout Argentina. If Personal is not one of the tenders awarded, it could adversely affect its competitive position and may require higher tangible capital expenditures to offer mobile services to its customers on a competitive basis in comparison with other operators that would obtain additional spectrum resulting from the auction. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory Framework—Other Regulatory Regulations—Regulations Applicable to PCS Services” for a detailed description of Personal’s license. 23 Table of Contents Actual or perceived health risks or other problems relating to mobile handsets or transmission masts could lead to litigation or decreased mobile communications usage. The effects of, and any damage caused by, exposure to an electromagnetic field were and are the subject of careful evaluations by the international scientific community, but until now there is no scientific evidence of harmful effects on health. We cannot rule out that exposure to electromagnetic fields or other emissions originating from mobile handsets will finally not be identified as a health risk. Although Argentine mobile operators comply with the international security standards established by the World Health Organization and Argentine regulations, which are similar, our mobile business may be harmed as a result of these alleged health risks. For example, the perception of these health risks could result in a lower number of customers, reduced usage per customer or potential consumer liability. In addition, these concerns may cause regulators and municipalities to impose restrictions on the construction of base station towers or other infrastructure, which may hinder the completion of network build-outs and the commercial availability of new services and may require additional investments. Nortel, as our controlling shareholder, and Sofora, as Nortel’s controlling shareholder, exercise control over significant matters affecting us. Nortel is our direct controlling shareholder. Sofora owns 100% of the common stock of Nortel, which currently represents 74.01% of the total capital stock of Nortel. Sofora is 68% owned by Telecom Italia Group and 32% owned by W de Argentina—Inversiones. Through their ownership of Sofora and the Shareholders’ Agreement between them, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina—Inversiones have, as a general matter, the ability to determine the outcome of any action requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the ability to elect a majority of directors and members of the Supervisory Committee. In addition, we have been informed that, pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement entered into between the Telecom Italia Group and the Werthein Group, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina—Inversiones have agreed among themselves to certain matters relating to the election of our directors and those of Nortel and Sofora and have given W de Argentina—Inversiones veto power with respect to certain matters relating to us. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreement.” We have engaged in and will continue to engage in transactions with these shareholders of Nortel and, at the present time, of Sofora, and their affiliates. Certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest between these shareholders as direct or indirect owners of Telecom Argentina’s capital stock and as parties with interests in these related party contracts. Nevertheless, all related parties’ transactions were made on an arm’s length basis and those which exceed 1% of Telecom Argentina’s shareholders’ equity are subjected to a prior approval process established by Decree No. 677/01 and requiring involvement of the Audit Committee and/or an opinion of two independent valuation firms as well as subsequent approval by the Board of Directors to verify that the agreement could reasonably be considered to be in accordance with normal and habitual market practice. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” Our operations and financial condition could be affected by union negotiations. In Argentina, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. In recent years, the demands of our labor organizations have increased mainly as a result of the increase in the cost of living (which was affected by the increased level of inflation) and a decline in the population’s purchasing power. In addition to the recategorization process expected in 2012 for Telecom Argentina’s nonunionized employees, certain labor organizations have advocated that some of our nonunionized employees should be represented by trade unions. Unions have also requested that we delegate currently outsourced tasks to Company’s employees. See “Item 6—Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations.” If the number of employees covered by trade unions increases or Personal’s employees (currently included in the collective bargain agreement of the Argentine Federation of Commercial and Service Employees 24 Table of Contents “FAECyS”) are included in the new collective bargain agreement for the mobile industry, we may incur increased costs for the higher compensation that we may need to pay. The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector or changes in labor regulations, which would increase our cost of doing business. The Argentine government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees (including higher levels of severance payments to former employees dismissed without proper cause). We cannot guarantee that the government will not adopt measures, as it did in the past, which will increase salaries or require us to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and, among other things, in the absence of an adjustment of regulated rates in our fixed services segments, continue reducing our profit margins. Moreover, there are certain bills pending in the Argentine Congress regarding modifications to labor regulations such as considering amounts paid to employees that are currently not subject to social security contributions as part of the normal and usual employees’ salaries, increasing liability of the companies for the sub-contractor’s employees in outsourced tasks and the implementation of a regime that would entitle employees to participate in the profits of companies that employ them. If such bills are approved, the modifications in current labor regulations and conditions could materially impact our relationship with our employees by increasing the labor cost and in some cases decreasing the flexibility to provide services to our clients. We are involved in various legal proceedings which could result in unfavorable decisions and financial penalties for us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. We cannot be certain that these claims will be resolved in our favor, and responding to the demands of litigation may divert management’s time and attentions and financial resources. In addition, in recent years, certain changes in the treatment of employment matters under Argentine law have created new incentives for individuals to pursue employment-related litigation in Argentine courts. These changes include holdings that an employee of a subcontractor may file a direct action against the firm contracting the work, that any cap on severance pay in cases of dismissal without cause is unconstitutional, that an employee may bring a civil action in the event of an occupational accident, and that an employee can bring a lawsuit against the employer because of changes in working conditions. Additionally, the Company is exposed to claims of employees of subcontractors and commercial agents claiming direct or indirect responsibility of Telecom based on a broad interpretation of the rules of labor law. Also, the Company is subject to various lawsuits initiated by some employees and former employees who claim wage differences caused by the impact of the concepts “non-remunerative sums (amounts not subject to social security contributions)” and “food vouchers” over the settlement of items such as overtime, productivity, vacation, supplementary annual salary and other additional benefits provided by the Collective Bargaining Agreement and, in certain cases, have obtained favorable rulings for these claims. In the past, Personal was subject, and currently is subject, to claims by former representatives (commercial agents) who end their business relationship by making claims for reasons that are not always justified by contract terms. As a result, Telecom Argentina and Personal may face increased risk of employment and commercial litigation. If this occurs, we cannot guarantee that this litigation will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, despite the provisions that the Company has recorded to cover from these matters, as it is described in “Item 8—Financial Information”. The CNC is the authority to control telecommunications services in Argentina and in its capacity is empowered to apply economic sanctions against licensees for breaches of the current regulatory framework. Recently, there has been a growing trend of imposing sanctions on Telecom Argentina for technical reasons, mainly related to the delay in repairing defective lines and/or installing new lines. Although penalties are 25 Table of Contents appealed in the administrative stage, if the appeals are not solved in our favor or the penalties imposed by the CNC increased, it could have an adverse effect on our financial situation, results of our operations and cash flows. Moreover, in 2009, the environmental agency required Telecom Argentina to be registered in the National Registry of Generators and Operators of Hazardous Waste as a result of alleged problems with our liquid drainage at an underground chamber (as it had been previously required to do in 1999). This registration would require Telecom Argentina to pay an annual fee calculated in accordance with a formula that takes into consideration the extent of the hazard and the quantity of the waste. Telecom Argentina filed a request for administrative review seeking to obtain rejection of the environmental agency’s ordinance. We cannot guarantee that the rejection will be obtained. In addition, changes in environmental legislation or the evolution of products and services we offer could require us to be registered in the National Registry of Generators and Operators of Hazardous Waste. In that case or if the rejection of the environmental agency’s ordinance is not obtained, Telecom Argentina would face increased costs which may include retroactive fees. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Civil, commercial, labor, regulatory, tax and other matters proceedings.” The enforcement of regulations aimed at protecting consumers may have an adverse effect on us. The Consumer Protection Act No. 24,240 (the “Consumer Protection Act”) establishes a series of principles and rules for the protection of consumers and users. The Consumer Protection Act applies to the telecommunications industry and to any other industry in which consumers and users are involved. Telecom Argentina and Personal have received several customer complaints in connection with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act that were filed with different law enforcement bodies (national, provincial or municipal) and, in the last few years, there was also an increase in legal actions brought by consumer associations. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Civil, commercial, labor, regulatory, tax and other matters proceedings—General Proceedings—Consumer Trade Union Proceedings.” This situation may entail risks for Telecom Argentina and Personal concerning, among others, the prices charged for its services, or the obligation to return amounts charged for its services. If such were the case, any of such consequences could have an adverse effect on our financial situation, results of our operations and cash flows. The BCRA has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina in the past; some restrictions currently exist and may increase in the future, which could prevent us from making payments on dividends and liabilities. In the past, the Argentine government has imposed a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures, including temporary restrictions on the free disposition of funds deposited with banks and restrictions or limitations on the access to foreign exchange markets and transfers of funds abroad, including for purposes of paying principal and interest on debt, trade liabilities to foreign suppliers and dividend payments to foreign shareholders. Although significant restrictions or limitations have been eliminated over the years, certain restrictions imposed by the BCRA on the access to foreign exchange markets and transfer of funds continues to apply to us. In addition, during the months of October and November 2011, new measures were implemented to control and limit the purchase of foreign currency, such as the prior approval of the AFIP for any purchase of foreign currency. There can be no assurance that the BCRA or other government agencies will not increase controls and restrictions for making payments to our foreign creditors, dividend payments to foreign shareholders or require its prior authorization for such purposes, which would limit our ability to timely comply with payments related to our liabilities with foreign creditors or non-resident shareholders. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Foreign Investment and Exchange Controls in Argentina.” In addition, in October 2011, Decree No. 1,722 eliminated an exception for oil and mining companies, and thus requires these companies to settle in the foreign exchange market all their export receipts. Moreover, the National Insurance Bureau, issued in October 2011, Resolution No. 36,162 imposing the obligation for insurance companies to have all investments and liquid assets allocated in Argentina. We cannot ensure that similar measures will not be taking for other companies and or other sectors in the future. 26 Table of Contents Starting in January 2012, the AFIP and the SCI must be notified in advance and must approve all import operations of goods and services. This new procedure could negatively affect the provision of imported products and services. Such procedure could also negatively affect our supply chain, as some raw materials, equipment and handsets are imported by our suppliers. Fluctuations in Telecom Argentina’s share price depend on various factors, some of which are outside of our control. The market price of our shares is subject to change due to various factors which are outside of our control such as changes in market expectations, changes in the economic and political situation in Argentina, the way ANSES will exercise its political rights and manage its share ownership in Telecom Argentina, and changes in measures used by investors or analysts to value our stock or market trends unrelated to our performance and operations. We cannot predict when such external factors will affect our stock price or whether their effects will be positive or negative. Finally, currency fluctuations could impact the value of an investment in Telecom Argentina. Although Telecom Argentina’s ADSs listed on the New York Stock Exchange are U.S. dollar — denominated securities, they do not eliminate the currency risk associated with an investment in an Argentine company. 