Risk Factors” section, it is difficult for us to predict with meaningful precision and accuracy our future market share in relevant geographic areas and customer segments, the speed with which change in our market share or prevailing prices for services may occur or the effects of competition. Those effects could be material and adverse to our overall financial condition and results of operations. Nortel Inversora S.A. (“Nortel”), as our principal shareholder, and its controlling shareholder, Sofora Telecomunicaciones S.A. (“Sofora”), exercise significant control over matters affecting us. Nortel is our principal shareholder, owning approximately 54.74% of our capital stock as of the date of this Annual Report. Nortel owns all of our Class A Shares and approximately 8.44% of our Class B Shares. Sofora owns 100% of the common stock and 67.79% of the capital stock of Nortel. Sofora is currently 50% owned by Telecom Italia Group, 48% owned by W de Argentina - Inversiones S.L., or W de Argentina - Inversiones (a company that is party of the Werthein Group de Argentina) and 2% owned by France Telecom Group. Through their ownership of Sofora, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina - Inversiones will have the ability to determine the outcome of any action requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the ability to elect a majority of directors. We have been informed that pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement entered into between the Telecom Italia Group and the Werthein Group, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina - Inversiones have agreed amongst themselves certain matters relating to the election of our directors and of Nortel’s and have given W de Argentina - Inversiones veto power with respect to certain matters relating to us. We have engaged in and will continue to engage in transactions with these shareholders of Nortel and, at the present time, of Sofora, and their affiliates. Certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest between these shareholders as direct or indirect owners of our capital stock and as parties with interests in these related party contracts. Nevertheless, any transactions with related parties that hold 1% or more of our equity are put through a prior approval process established by Decree 677/01 and requiring involvement of the Audit Committee and/or an opinion of two independent valuation firms as well as subsequent approval by the Board of Directors in order to verify that the agreement could reasonably be considered to be in accordance with normal and habitual market practice. See “Item 7 - Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions”. Our operations and financial condition could be affected by union activity and general labor unrest. In Argentina, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. The demands of our labor organizations have increased recently as a result of the general labor unrest and dissatisfaction resulting from the disparity between the cost of living and salaries in Argentina as a result of the end of the Convertibility Law (although the Argentine Government has attempted to alleviate this economic disparity through in-kind social welfare distributions). Moreover, labor organizations have advocated that certain of our non-unionized employees should be represented by trade unions. If the number of employees covered by trade unions increases, we may incur an increase in costs for the higher compensation that we and our contractors may need to pay to unionized employees. In this context, and given the fact that we are limited in our ability to resolve these issues since Telecom Argentina has not yet received authorization for tariff increases, we concluded several agreements with various labor organizations representing our fixed-line telephony employees. These agreements entered into effectiveness in January 2005 and remained in force for all of fiscal year 2005. We entered into additional salary agreements in January 2006 and April 2006. Please see “Item 6 - Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Employees and Labor Relations” and “Item 8 - Financial Information - Legal Proceedings”. The Argentine Government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which would increase our cost of doing business. 15 The Argentine Government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis, both the Government and private sector companies have experienced significant pressure from employees and labor organizations relating to wage levels and employee benefits. In early 2005 the Argentine Government stated that it would not order salary increases by decree. During 2006 additional wage adjustments beyond those already negotiated with the labor organizations are not expected, nor are salary increases anticipated for the personnel outside such labor agreements. Furthermore, there is currently no indication that adjustments will be ordered by the Argentine Government in then near future. However, there has been no abatement of pressure to mandate salary increases, and it is possible the government will adopt measures that will increase salaries or require us to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and, in the absence of an adjustment of regulated tariffs, reduce our profitability. Moreover, the Argentine congress is discussing certain modifications to labor regulations that, if approved, could materially impact our relationship with our employees. We are involved in various litigation proceedings which could result in unfavorable decisions and financial penalties for us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. We cannot be certain that these claims will be resolved in our favor, and responding to the demands of litigation may divert management time, attention and financial resources. Please see: “Item 8 - Financial Information - Legal Proceedings”. In addition, in the last two years, certain changes in the treatment of employment matters under Argentine law have created new incentives for individuals to pursue employment-related litigation in Argentine courts. These changes include holdings that an employee of a subcontractor may file a direct action against the firm contracting the work, that any cap on severance pay in cases of dismissal without cause is unconstitutional, that an employee may bring a civil action in the event of an occupational accident, and the passage of an amendment to the Employment Contract Law to restrict an employer’s ability to change the form and conditions of work expected of an employee. As a result of these changes, there may be a heightened risk of employment-related litigation. For example, former sales representatives of Telecom Personal have brought legal actions for what they consider to be the untimely termination of their contracts and have submitted claims for the payment of different items such as commission differences, seniority bonuses and lost profit. Decisions on these claims are pending. The tax authorities have reviewed certain interpretations that could affect the tax treatment of our bad debt expense and fiber optic improvements. See “Item 10 - Additional Information - Taxation” and “Item 8 - Financial Information - Legal Proceedings”. We may be subject to measures by the Argentine Government that may modify or impose obligations to provide telecommunications services without or with reduced compensation which may result in losses. On June 12, 2002, the Argentine Congress passed Law No. 25,609. As of the date of this Annual Report, the executive branch had vetoed Law 25,609 and sent it back to the Congress where it is still being considered. Law No. 25,609 provides that Argentine telephone operators such as Telecom Argentina must provide “indispensable telephony services” to certain public entities even if these beneficiaries do not pay for these services. The implementation of Law No. 25,609 and subsequent regulations may impact Telecom Argentina’s ability to set-off any amounts owed by these public entities against any amounts Telecom Argentina owes to the Argentine Government. In addition, the fulfillment of these obligations may result in losses for us. Please see “Regulatory Framework - Law No. 25,609”. Certain regulatory measures that are still pending implementation, including regulations governing the unbundling of the local access (commonly known as local loop) and number portability, could have the affect of increasing competition for the services we offer. Moreover, the government could modify some of the current regulations, without granting the company corresponding compensation for changes in service requirements, could change its interpretation of existing regulations or introduce new obligations, among others, obligations relating to provision of customer services, universal service regulation, etc., which could have a material impact on our operations. 16 The BCRA has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina in the past and may do so in the future, which could prevent us from making payments on our debt. In 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Government imposed a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that included restrictions on the free disposition of funds deposited with banks and tightened restrictions on transferring funds abroad, including for purposes of paying principal and interest on debt. Although these restrictions have generally been eliminated, restrictions on transfer of funds have in the past limited and may in the future limit our ability to make payments on our debt to creditors outside of Argentina. There can be no assurance that the BCRA will not again restrict the transfer of funds abroad for principal and/or interest payments by us to our foreign creditors, or require its prior authorization for such purposes, which would limit our ability to service our debt. See “Item 10 - Additional Information - Foreign Investment and Exchange Controls in Argentina”. There is no assurance that the market for our securities will provide proper levels of liquidity. Some of our debt securities, including Telecom Argentina’s Series A and Series B notes, are newly issued and therefore their liquidity in the future is uncertain. The liquidity of our debt securities will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. The liquidity of our securities could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions and interest rates, both in Argentina and the global economy, as well as by any change in our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the liquidity of Telecom Argentina’s Series A and Series B notes could be reduced by prepayments and repurchases carried out in accordance with the terms of the notes. Our consolidated financial statement under Argentine GAAP may not give you the same information as financial statements prepared under US GAAP. There is a lower level of regulation of the Argentine securities markets and of the activities of investors in these markets as compared with the securities markets in the United States and certain other developed countries. We maintain our financial books and records and prepares our financial statements in conformity with Argentine GAAP, which differs in certain significant aspects from US GAAP. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the significant differences between Argentine GAAP and US GAAP as they relate to us. 