Risk Factors” section, it is difficult for us to predict with meaningful precision and accuracy our future market share in relevant geographic areas and customer segments, the speed with which change in our market share or prevailing prices for services may occur or the effects of competition. Those effects could be material and adverse to our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future allocations of mobile frequency bands may affect the competitiveness of the Argentine mobile industry and could impact Telecom Personal’s competitive position within it. In May 2011, the SECOM through Resolution No. 57/11 launched an auction to reassign the 850 MHz and 1900 MHz frequency bands returned by Telefónica Móviles Argentina S.A. because they exceeded their 50 MHz spectrum cap. 22 Table of Contents Telecom Personal will participate in the spectrum auction and expects to acquire additional spectrum to complete its “Spectrum cap” along throughout Argentina. If Telecom Personal is not one of the tender’s awarded, it could adversely affect its competitive position and may require higher tangible capital expenditures to offer mobile services to its customers on a competitive basis in comparison with other operators that would obtain additional spectrum resulting from the auction. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulatory Framework—Other Regulatory Regulations—Regulations Applicable to PCS Services” for a detailed description of Telecom Personal’s license. Actual or perceived health risks or other problems relating to mobile handsets or transmission masts could lead to litigation or decreased mobile communications usage The effects of, and any damage caused by, exposure to an electromagnetic field were and are the subject of careful evaluations by the international scientific community, but until now there is no scientific evidence of harmful effects on health. We cannot rule out that exposure to electromagnetic fields or other emissions originating from mobile handsets will not be identified as a health risk in the future. Although Argentine mobile services comply with the international security standards established by the World Health Organization and Argentine regulations which are similar, our mobile business may be harmed as a result of these alleged health risks. For example, the perception of these health risks could result in a lower number of customers, reduced usage per customer or potential consumer liability. In addition, these concerns may cause regulators and municipalities to impose restrictions on the construction of base station towers or other infrastructure, which may hinder the completion of network build-outs and the commercial availability of new services and may require additional investments. Nortel, as our controlling shareholder, and Sofora as Nortel’s controlling shareholder, exercise control over significant matters affecting us. Nortel is our direct controlling shareholder. Sofora owns 100% of the common stock of Nortel, which currently represents 69.94% of the total capital stock of Nortel. Sofora is 68% owned by Telecom Italia Group and 32% owned by W de Argentina—Inversiones. Through their ownership of Sofora and the Shareholders’ Agreement between them, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina—Inversiones have, as a general matter, the ability to determine the outcome of any action requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the ability to elect a majority of directors and members of the Supervisory Committee. In addition, we have been informed that pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement entered into between the Telecom Italia Group and the Werthein Group, the Telecom Italia Group and W de Argentina—Inversiones have agreed amongst themselves certain matters relating to the election of our directors and those of Nortel and Sofora and have given W de Argentina—Inversiones veto power with respect to certain matters relating to us. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreement.” We have engaged in and will continue to engage in transactions with these shareholders of Nortel and, at the present time, of Sofora, and their affiliates. Certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest between these shareholders as direct or indirect owners of Telecom Argentina’s capital stock and as parties with interests in these related party contracts. Nevertheless, all related parties’ transactions were made on arm’s- length basis and those which exceeds 1% of Telecom Argentina’s shareholders’ equity are subjected to a prior approval process established by Decree No. 677/01 and requiring involvement of the Audit Committee and/or an opinion of two independent valuation firms as well as subsequent approval by the Board of Directors in order to verify that the agreement could reasonably be considered to be in accordance with normal and habitual market practice. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” 23 Table of Contents Our operations and financial condition could be affected by union activity. In Argentina, labor organizations have substantial support and have considerable political influence. In recent years, the demands of our labor organizations have increased mainly as a result of the increase in cost of living (which was affected by the increased level of inflation) and a decline in the population purchasing power. In addition, in January 2010, FOETRA Buenos Aires Unions obtained a resolution from the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security (the “MTEySS”) amending its status to include mobile telephony employees within the scope of its representation (the status determines the capacity of the union to represent employees and to negotiate collectively on behalf of them). This resolution will also have a similar impact on the other unions in the telecommunications industry. Currently, Telecom Personal’s employees covered by union agreements continue to be represented by the Argentine Federation of Commercial and Service Employees (the “FAECyS”) and therefore, salary agreements entered into by this union continue to apply. During 2010, agreements were reached at guild- company level to keep the discussion of the form and timing of the employees’ representation with the spirit to involve the rest of Telecom Personal’s peer mobile operators in any collective bargaining process in order to avoid any regulatory asymmetry that could erode Telecom Personal’s competitive position. Moreover, certain labor organizations have advocated that some of our non-unionized employees should be represented by trade unions. Unions have also requested that we delegate currently outsourced tasks to Company employees. If the number of employees covered by trade unions increase or Telecom Personal’s employees is represented by unions in the telecommunications industry, we may incur increased costs for the higher compensation that we may need to pay to unionized employees and less labor flexibility. See “Item 6—Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations.” The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector or changes in labor regulations, which would increase our cost of doing business. The Argentine government has in the past and may in the future promulgate laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees (including higher levels of severance payments to former employees dismissed without proper cause). In the aftermath of the 2002 Argentine economic crisis, both the government and private sector companies have experienced significant pressure from employees and labor organizations relating to wage levels and employee benefits. However, since early 2005, the Argentine government has decided not to order new salary increases by decree. We cannot guarantee that the government will not again adopt measures that will increase salaries or require us to provide additional benefits, which would increase our costs and, among other things, in the absence of an adjustment of regulated rates in our fixed services segments, reduce our profitability. In recent times, the MTEySS has shown an active policy promoting the suppression of certain levels of outsourcing of tasks. Moreover, there are certain bills pending in the Argentine Congress regarding modifications to labor regulations such as considering amounts paid to employees that are currently not subject to social security contributions as part of the normal and usual employees’ salaries, increasing liability of the companies for the sub-contractor’s employees in outsourced tasks and the implementation of a regime that would entitle employees to participate in the profits of companies that employ them. If such bills are approved, the modifications in current labor regulations and conditions could materially impact our relationship with our employees by increasing the labor cost and in some cases decreasing the flexibility to provide services to our clients. 24 Table of Contents We are involved in various legal proceedings which could result in unfavorable decisions and financial penalties for us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. We cannot be certain that these claims will be resolved in our favor, and responding to the demands of litigation may divert management time, attention and financial resources. In addition, in recent years, certain changes in the treatment of employment matters under Argentine law have created new incentives for individuals to pursue employment-related litigation in Argentine courts. These changes include holdings that an employee of a subcontractor may file a direct action against the firm contracting the work, that any cap on severance pay in cases of dismissal without cause is unconstitutional, that an employee may bring a civil action in the event of an occupational accident, and that an employee can bring a lawsuit against the employer because of changes in form and working conditions. Additionally, the Company is exposed to claims of employees of subcontractors and commercial agents claiming direct or indirect responsibility of Telecom based on a broad interpretation of the rules of labor law. In the past, Telecom was subject and may be subject in the future to claims by commercial agents who end their business relationship by making claims for reasons that are not always justified by contract terms. Also, the Company is subject to various lawsuits initiated by some employees and former employees who claim wage differences caused by the impact of the concepts “non-remunerative sums (amounts not subject to social security contributions)” and “food vouchers” over the settlement of items such as overtime, productivity, vacation, supplementary annual salary and other additional benefits provided by the Collective Bargaining Agreement and, in certain cases, have obtained favorable rulings for this claims. Additionally, certain organizations such as trade unions, OSTEL (Health Association of Telephone Workers and Employees of Argentina) and the Compensation Fund have filed complaints against Telecom Argentina objecting to the level of social contributions and have obtained, in some cases, favorable rulings for these claims. As a result of these changes, Telecom Argentina may face increased risk of individual and collective employment litigation. If this occurs, we cannot guarantee that this litigation will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, despite the provisions that the Company has recorded to cover from these matters, as it is described in Item 8. The CNC is the authority to control telecommunications services in Argentina and in its capacity is empowered to apply economic sanctions against licensees for breaches of the current regulatory framework. Recently, there has been a growing trend of imposing sanctions to Telecom Argentina for technical reasons, mainly related with the delay in repairing the lines with faults and / or installing new lines. Although penalties are appealed in the administrative stage, if the appeals are not solved in our favor or the penalties imposed by the CNC increased, it could have an adverse effect on our financial situation, results of our operations and cash flows. Moreover, in 2009, the environmental agency required Telecom Argentina to be registered in the National Registry of Generators and Operators of Hazardous Waste (as it had been previously required to do in 1999). This registration would require Telecom Argentina to pay an annual fee calculated in accordance with a formula that takes into consideration the extent of the hazard and the quantity of the waste. Telecom Argentina filed a request for administrative review seeking to obtain rejection of the environmental agency’s ordinance. We cannot guarantee that the rejection will be obtained. If such rejection is not obtained, Telecom Argentina would face increased costs which may include retroactive fees. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings— Civil, commercial, labor regulatory, tax and other matters proceedings.” The enforcement of regulations aimed at protecting consumers may have an adverse effect on us. The Consumer Protection Act No. 24,240, as amended in 2008 (the “Consumer Protection Act”) establishes a series of principles and rules for the protection of consumers and users such as: (i) the extension of the definition of a consumer; (ii) an increase in the fines that could be imposed on providers and the possibility that relevant administrative authorities may order providers to pay direct damages up to a maximum amount; (iii) the courts may order providers to pay punitive damages to consumers up to a maximum amount of P$5 million, depending on the seriousness of the breach, among other considerations; and (iv) provisions governing the possibility that consumer associations may commence class actions on behalf of an indeterminate group of consumers. The Consumer Protection Act applies to the telecommunications industry and to any other industry in which consumers and users are involved. 25 Table of Contents In connection with the provisions of the law 24,240, the Company has received several customer complaints that were filed with different law enforcement bodies (national, provincial or municipal). Some of them have resulted in economic sanctions for the Company. The provisions of the Consumer Protection Act may provide an incentive for individuals and/or consumer associations to pursue legal actions against various companies that provide goods and services. This possibility would entail risks for Telecom Argentina and Personal concerning, among others, the prices charged for its services, or the obligation to return amounts charged for its services. If such were the case, any of such consequences could have an adverse effect on our financial situation, results of our operations and cash flows. The BCRA has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina in the past; some restrictions currently exist and may increase in the future, which could prevent us from making payments on dividends and liabilities. In the past, the Argentine government has imposed a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures, including restrictions on the free disposition of funds deposited with banks and restrictions or limitations on the access to foreign exchange markets and transfers of funds abroad, including for purposes of paying principal and interest on debt, trade liabilities to foreign suppliers and dividend payments to foreign shareholders. Although most significant restrictions or limitations have been eliminated, certain restrictions imposed by the BCRA on the access to foreign exchange markets and transfer of funds continue to apply to us and may in the future limit our ability to make payments to our creditors outside of Argentina. There can be no assurance that the BCRA will not increase restrictions for making payments to our foreign creditors, dividend payments to foreign shareholders or require its prior authorization for such purposes, which would limit our ability to timely comply with payments related to our liabilities with foreign creditors or shareholders. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Foreign Investment and Exchange Controls in Argentina.” Fluctuations in Telecom Argentina’s share price depend on various factors, some of which are outside of our control. The market price of our shares is subject to change due to various factors which are outside of our control such as changes in market expectations, changes in the economic and political situation of Argentina the way ANSES will exercise its political rights and for manage its share ownership in Telecom Argentina, changes in measures used by investors or analysts to value our stock or market trends unrelated to our performance and operations. We cannot predict when such external factors will affect our stock price or whether their effects will be positive or negative. In addition, future conversions of Telecom Argentina’s Class C Shares could affect the trading price of Telecom Argentina’s shares if a large number of converted shares are sold in the public markets within a short time period. See “Item 6—Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Share Ownership—Share Ownership Plan.” Finally, currency fluctuations could impact the value of an investment in Telecom Argentina. Although Telecom Argentina’s ADSs listed on the New York Stock Exchange are U.S. dollar denominated securities, they do not eliminate the currency risk associated with an investment in an Argentine company. 