Risk Factors Risks relating to our company and our business Our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be adversely affected if we are unable to implement the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement. We own 76.4% of the outstanding shares of Yuchai, and one of our primary sources of cash flow continues to be our share of the dividends, if any, paid by Yuchai and investment earnings thereon. As a result of the agreement reached with Yuchai and its related parties pursuant to the July 2003 Agreement, we discontinued legal and arbitration proceedings initiated by us in May 2003 relating to difficulties with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In furtherance of the terms of the July 2003 Agreement, we, Yuchai and Coomber Investments Limited, or Coomber, entered into the Reorganization Agreement in April 2005, as amended in December 2005 and November 2006, and agreed on a restructuring plan for our company intended to be beneficial to our shareholders. In June 2007, we, along with Yuchai, Coomber and the State Holding Company, entered into the Cooperation Agreement. The Cooperation agreement amends certain terms of the Reorganization Agreement and as so amended, incorporates the terms of the Reorganization Agreement. Pursuant to the amendments to the Reorganization Agreement, the Company has agreed that the restructuring and spin-off of Yuchai will not be effected, and, recognizing the understandings that have been reached between the Company and the State Holding Company to jointly undertake efforts to expand the business of Yuchai, the Company will not seek to recover the anti-dilution fee of US$20 million that was due from Yuchai. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — History and Development — Reorganization Agreement.” No assurance can be given as to when the business expansion requirements relating to Yuchai as contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement will be fully implemented, or that implementation of the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement will effectively resolve all of the difficulties faced by us with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In addition, the Reorganization Agreement contemplates the continued implementation of our business expansion and diversification plan adopted in February 2005. One of the goals of this business expansion and diversification plan is to reduce our financial dependence on Yuchai. Thus far, we have acquired strategic stakes in TCL and HLGE. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Business Expansion and Diversification Plan.” Nonetheless, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully expand and diversify our business. We may also not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, or secure funding to consummate such acquisitions or successfully integrate such acquired businesses within our operations. Any failure to implement the terms of the Reorganization Agreement and Cooperation Agreement, including our continued expansion and diversification, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Additionally, although the Cooperation Agreement amends certain provisions of the Reorganization Agreement and also acknowledges the understandings that have been reached between us and the State Holding Company to jointly undertake efforts to expand and diversify the business of Yuchai, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement those efforts or as to when the transactions contemplated therein will be consummated. We have and may continue to experience disagreements and difficulties with the Chinese shareholders in Yuchai. Although we own 76.4% of the outstanding shares of Yuchai, and believe we have proper legal ownership of our investment and a controlling financial interest in Yuchai, in the event there is a dispute with Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders regarding our investment in Yuchai, we may have to rely on the Chinese legal system for remedies. The Chinese legal system may not be as effective as compared to other more developed countries such as the United States. See “— Risks relating to Mainland China — The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors.” We have in the past experienced problems from time to time in obtaining assistance and cooperation of Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders in the daily management and operation of Yuchai. We have, in the past also experienced problems from time to time in obtaining the assistance and cooperation of the State Holding Company in dealing with other various matters, including the implementation of corporate governance procedures, the payment of dividends, the holding of Yuchai board meetings and the resolution of employee-related matters. Examples of these problems are described elsewhere in this Annual Report. The July 2003 Agreement, the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement are intended to resolve certain issues relating to our share ownership in Yuchai and the continued corporate governance and other difficulties which we have had with respect to Yuchai. As part of the terms of the Reorganization Agreement, Yuchai agreed that it would seek the requisite shareholder approval prior to entering into any material 6 Table of Contents transactions (including any agreements or arrangements with parties related to Yuchai or any of its shareholders) and that it would comply with its governance requirements. Yuchai also acknowledged and affirmed the Company’s continued rights as majority shareholder to direct the management and policies of Yuchai through Yuchai’s Board of Directors. Yuchai’s Articles of Association have been amended and such amended Articles of Association entitle the Company to elect nine of Yuchai’s 13 directors, thereby reaffirming the Company’s right to effect all major decisions relating to Yuchai. However, Yuchai’s amended Articles of Association are not yet effective pending approval of the Ministry of Commerce, PRC. While Yuchai has affirmed the Company’s continued rights as Yuchai’s majority shareholder and authority to direct the management and policies of Yuchai, no assurance can be given that disagreements and difficulties with Yuchai’s management and/or Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders will not recur, including implementation of the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement, corporate governance matters or related party transactions. Such disagreements and difficulties could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and have been required to restate our historical financial statements in the past. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements in the future, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. In Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2005, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 and reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that as of December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. In addition, in connection with management’s ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this Annual Report, management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and has concluded that as of December 31, 2006, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective. See “Item 15T — Controls and Procedures.” Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Although the assessment by the Company’s management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 is continuing, the Company’s management currently expects to disclose one or more material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain or improve existing controls or implement new controls could result in additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations which in turn could cause our shares to be de-listed or suspended from trading on the NYSE. In addition, any such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and adversely affect the results of annual management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price. Our exposure to the Dongfeng Group has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our sales are concentrated among the Dongfeng Group which includes the Dongfeng Automobile Company, one of the largest state-owned automobile companies in China, and other major diesel truck manufacturers controlled by or affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company. In 2006, sales to the Dongfeng Group accounted for 21.7% of our total net revenues, of which sales to our two largest customers, Liuzhou Dongfeng Automobile and Hubei Dongfeng Automobile, accounted for 9.9%. Although we consider our relationship with the Dongfeng Group to be good, the loss of one or more of the companies within the Dongfeng Group as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In addition, we are dependent on the purchases made by the Dongfeng Group from us and have exposure to their liquidity arising from the high level of accounts receivable from them. We cannot assure you that the Dongfeng Group will be able to repay all the money they owe to us. In addition, the Dongfeng Group may not be able to continue purchasing the same volume of products from our company which would reduce our overall sales volume. The Dongfeng Group also competes with us in the diesel engine market in China. Although we believe that the companies within the Dongfeng Group generally make independent purchasing decisions based on end-user preferences, we cannot assure you that truck manufacturers affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company will not preferentially purchase diesel engines manufactured by companies within the Dongfeng Group over those manufactured by us. 7 Table of Contents Competition in China from other diesel engine manufacturers may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. The diesel engine industry in China is highly competitive. We compete with many other China domestic companies, most of which are state-owned enterprises. Some of our competitors have formed joint ventures with or have technology assistance relationships with foreign diesel engine manufacturers or foreign engine design consulting firms and use foreign technology that is more advanced than ours. We expect competition to intensify as a result of: • improvements in competitors’ products; • increased production capacity of competitors; • increased utilization of unused capacity by competitors; and • price competition. In addition, if restrictions on the import of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts into China are reduced, foreign competition could increase significantly. In the medium-duty diesel engine market, our 6108 medium-duty engine, introduced in 1997, has been competing with the 6110 medium-duty engine offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to maintain or improve our current market share or develop new markets for our medium-duty diesel engines. Based on current industry trends, although there is a perceived shift in the market demand from medium-duty engines to heavy-duty diesel engines, general credit tightening by banks may however affect this trend. In 2006, 6108 medium-duty engine sales volumes declined 53.1% compared to its sales in 2005. In 2007, however, 6108 medium-duty engine sales volumes improved approximately 85% compared to its sales in 2006. With the improved highway road system as a result of the Chinese government’s investment in infrastructure, truck market sales growth is trending towards heavy-duty engines. In the heavy-duty diesel engine market, we introduced the 6112 heavy-duty engine in late 1999. Due to a delay in the commercial production of the 6112 engine, however, we were not able to benefit from the competitive advantages of an early entry into the China domestic market for heavy-duty engines. Moreover, the market for heavy-duty diesel engines in China is price-sensitive. We commenced engine development of the 6L heavy-duty engine (formerly referred to as 6113) in 2003 and introduced the 6M heavy-duty engine family for heavy-duty trucks and passenger buses in 2004. We cannot assure you that our 6112, 6L or 6M heavy-duty engines will be able to compete successfully in the heavy-duty diesel engine market in China with the existing producers or any new entrants. In the light-duty diesel engine market, our 4108, 4110 and 4112 light-duty engines introduced in 2000 were met with weak consumer demand due to strong competition and a high pricing structure. Yuchai’s first sales of the 4F engines occurred in March 2005. Yuchai expects growth of this new engine to strengthen over the next few years and become a significant contributor to sales growth for Yuchai. Although there had been an increase in sales of our 4-Series engines from 2003 to 2007, this has been primarily due to the average selling price of the 4-Series engines being lower than the medium and heavy-duty diesel engines, thereby making the 4-Series more affordable to the buyers especially due to the credit tightening by banks in China. In 2006, the 4-Series engines continued a healthy growth of 18.5% over 2005 in unit sales amid increasing selling price pressure due to strong growth in light-duty engine truck sectors and the Chinese government’s subsidy to the agriculture sector. In 2007, the 4-Series engines had a growth of approximately 56% in unit sales over 2006. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to improve our market share for light-duty diesel engines, and we may, in the future, decide to cease production of one or more of the models we are currently producing. Our long-term business prospects will depend largely upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices. Our competitors in the diesel engine markets may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers. Competition in the end-use markets, mainly the truck market, may also lead to technological improvement and advances that render our current products obsolete at an earlier than expected date, in which case we may have to depreciate or impair our production equipment more rapidly than planned. Failure to introduce or delays in the introduction of new or improved products at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. 8 Table of Contents Our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to continue our sales growth or adequately manage our growth. We have achieved consistent growth in net sales during the last five fiscal years, with net sales increasing by 4.2% from 2004 to Rmb 5,816.7 million in 2005 and by 19.0% to Rmb 6,920.5 million (US$1,009.0 million) in 2006. We cannot assure you that we can continue to increase our net sales or maintain our present level of net sales. For example, during 2005, we increased production capacity to approximately 290,000 units after the completion of our second foundry and the new 6L and 6M heavy-duty engines lines, and we may not be able to increase our net sales commensurate with our increased levels of production capacity. Moreover, our future growth is dependent in large part on factors beyond our control, such as the continued economic growth in China. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly manage any future growth, including: • obtaining the necessary supplies, including the availability of raw materials; • hiring and training skilled production workers and management personnel; • manufacturing and delivering products for increased orders in a timely manner; • maintaining quality standards and prices; • controlling production costs; and • obtaining adequate funding on commercially reasonable terms for future growth. Furthermore, we have acquired in the past, and may acquire in the future, equity interests in engine parts suppliers and logistics and marketing companies. If we are unable to effectively manage or assimilate these acquisitions, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Manufacturing.” The diesel engine business in China is dependent in large part on the performance of the Chinese economy, as well as Chinese government policy. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected by slowdowns in the Chinese economy, as well as Chinese government policies affecting our business. During periods of economic expansion, the demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases. Conversely, during economic slowdowns the diesel engine industry is generally adversely affected by a decline in demand. As a result, the performance of the Chinese economy will likely affect, to a significant degree, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. For example, the various austerity measures taken by the Chinese government from time to time to regulate economic growth and control inflation have in prior periods significantly weakened demand for trucks in China, and may have a similar effect in the future. In particular, austerity measures that restrict access to credit and slow the rate of fixed investment (including infrastructure development) adversely affect demand for, and production of, trucks and other commercial vehicles. These adverse market conditions, together with increased competition in the diesel engine market, result in various degrees of financial and marketing difficulties for diesel engine producers, including our company. The business and prospects for the diesel engine industry, and thus the business and prospects of our company, may also be adversely affected by Chinese government policy. For example, in 1998, the Chinese government announced a major initiative to boost consumer demand through investments in infrastructure projects and increased availability of bank credit. As a result, demand for trucks and other commercial vehicles, and thus demand for diesel engines, continued to increase from 2002 to 2004. In 2005, however, sales for trucks and other commercial vehicles declined by approximately 1.0% due to a credit tightening policy by the Chinese government. In 2006, sales for commercial vehicles increased 14.2% due to the strong economic growth achieved and continued investment in infrastructure building by the Chinese government. (Source: China Automotive Industry Newsletter for 2006). In 2007, sales for commercial vehicles increased by approximately 26.0% due to the continued economic growth in China. (Source: China Automotive Industry Newsletter for 2007) However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not change its policy in the future to de-emphasize the use of diesel engines, and any such change will adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures to avoid overheating in certain sectors of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies and increases in bank interest rates. See “— Risks relating to Mainland China — Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position.” 9 Table of Contents If we are not able to continuously improve our existing engine products and develop new diesel engine products or successfully enter into other market segments, we may become less competitive, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects will be adversely affected. As the Chinese automotive industry continues to develop, we will have to continuously improve our existing engine products, develop new diesel engine products and diversify into other market segments in order to remain competitive. As a result, our long-term business prospects will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices as well as the success of any entry into new market segments. Future products may utilize different technologies and different market segments may require knowledge of markets that we do not currently possess. Moreover, our competitors may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers than our products. Any failure by our company to introduce, or any delays in the introduction of, new or improved products at competitive prices or any delay or failure to enter into other market segments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. As the Chinese automotive industry continues to develop, we will have to continuously improve our existing engine products, develop new diesel engine products and enter into new market segments in order to remain competitive. As a result, our long-term business prospects will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices and enter into new market segments. Future products may utilize different technologies and may require knowledge of markets that we do not currently possess. Moreover, our competitors may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers than our products or enter into new markets with an early-entrant advantage. Any failure by our company to introduce, or any delays in the introduction of, new or improved products at competitive prices or entering into new market segments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. On April 10, 2007, Yuchai signed a Cooperation Framework Agreement with Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., Ltd (“Geely”) and Zhejiang Yinlun Machinery Co., Limited (“Yinlun”) to consider establishing a proposed joint venture company to develop diesel engines for passenger cars in China. In December 2007, further to the Cooperation Framework Agreement, Yuchai entered into an Equity Joint Venture Agreement with Geely and Yinlun, to form two joint venture companies in Tiantai, Zhejiang Province and Jining, Shandong Province. The joint venture companies will be primarily engaged in the development, production and sales of a proprietary diesel engine and its parts for passenger vehicles. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – Products – New Products” for more information. There can be no assurance that these joint ventures will be successful or profitable. If China’s inflation worsens or the prices of energy or raw materials continue to rise, we may not be able to pass the resulting increased costs to our customers and this may adversely affect our profitability or cause us to suffer operating losses. Economic growth in China has been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to control inflation. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb inflation. Inflation and an increase in energy prices generally could cause our costs for raw materials required for the production of products to increase, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if we cannot pass these added costs along to customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund our capital requirements which could limit our growth potential. We believe that our cash from operations, together with any necessary borrowings, will provide sufficient financial resources to meet our projected capital and other expenditure requirements. If we have underestimated our capital requirements or overestimated our future cash flows, additional financing may be required. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to various uncertainties, including our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow, economic, political and other conditions in Mainland China, the Chinese government’s policies relating to foreign currency borrowings and the condition of the Chinese and international capital markets. If adequate capital is not available, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected. We could be exposed to the impact of interest rates and foreign currency movements with respect to our future borrowings. In addition, a devaluation of the Renminbi will increase the Renminbi cost of repaying our foreign currency denominated indebtedness and, therefore, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We may use borrowings from time to time to supplement our working capital requirements and to finance our business expansion and diversification plan. See “Item 5. Our Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A portion of our borrowings may be structured on a floating rate basis and denominated in US dollars, Singapore dollars or Renminbi. An increase in interest rates, or fluctuations in exchange rates between the Renminbi or Singapore dollars and US dollars, may increase our borrowing costs or the availability of funding and could affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In particular, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected by a devaluation of the Renminbi. In addition, an increase in interest rates may reduce the fair value of the debt securities issued by HLGE. 10 Table of Contents The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in Chinese government policies and to international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, has been based on rates set by the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, China reformed its foreign exchange regime by moving into a managed floating exchange rate system based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Renminbi would no longer be pegged to the US dollar. From July 20, 2005 to December 29, 2006, Renminbi appreciated about 5.7% against the US dollar, and has appreciated since then. On December 29, 2006, the noon buying rate was Rmb 7.8041 = US$1.00, and on June 30, 2008, the noon buying rate was Rmb 6.8591 = US$1.00. Since we may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi devaluations, future movements in the exchange rate of Renminbi and other currencies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese national and local environmental protection regulations which currently impose fees for the discharge of waste substances, require the payment of fines for pollution, and provide for the closure by the Chinese government of any facility that fails to comply with orders requiring us to cease or improve upon certain activities causing environmental damage. Due to the nature of our business, we produce certain amounts of waste water, gas, and solid waste materials during the course of our production. We believe our environmental protection facilities and systems are adequate for us to comply with the existing national, provincial and local environmental protection regulations. However, Chinese national, provincial or local authorities may impose additional or more stringent regulations which would require additional expenditure on environmental matters or changes in our processes or systems. The manufacture and sales of Euro 0 and Euro I engines in major urban areas became unlawful after August 31, 2004. After that date, the engines equipped with Euro 0 and Euro I engines are not permitted to be sold and used in major urban areas. The manufacture and sale of Euro II engines is also being progressively phased out starting June 30, 2008 and the PRC emission standard equivalent to Euro III is expected to be implemented progressively throughout China from 2008. There can be no assurance that Yuchai will be able to comply with these emission standards or that the introduction of these and other environmental regulations will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover risks related to our production and other operations. The amount of our insurance coverage for our buildings and equipment is at cost which could be less than replacement value, and we have no plans to increase the coverage. The amount of our insurance coverage for our inventory is at book value which could be less than replacement value, and we also have no plans to increase this coverage. In accordance with what we believe is customary practice among industrial equipment manufacturers in China, we insure only high risk assets, such as production property and equipment and certain inventory. However, our underinsurance of other properties, facilities and inventory in accordance with this Chinese practice exposes us to substantial risks so that in the event of a major accident, our insurance recovery may be inadequate. We do not currently carry third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. We also do not carry business interruption insurance as such coverage is not customary in China. Losses incurred or payments required to be made by us which are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks relating to our shares and share ownership Our controlling shareholder’s interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. Our controlling shareholder, Hong Leong Asia Ltd., or Hong Leong Asia, indirectly owns 7,913,769, or 21.2%, of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, as well as a special share that entitles it to elect a majority of our directors. Hong Leong Asia controls us through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hong Leong (China) Limited, or Hong Leong China, and through HL Technology Systems Pte Ltd, or HL Technology, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hong Leong China. HL Technology owns approximately 21.0% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock and is, and has since August 2002 been, the registered holder of the special share. Hong Leong Asia also owns, and has since May 2005 owned, through another wholly-owned subsidiary, Well Summit Investments Limited, approximately 0.2% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Hong Leong Asia is a member of the Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte. Ltd., or Hong Leong Investment, group of companies. Prior to August 2002, we were controlled by Diesel Machinery (BVI) Limited, or Diesel Machinery, which, until its dissolution, was a holding company controlled by Hong Leong China and was the prior owner of the special share. Through HL Technology’s stock ownership and the rights accorded to the Special Share under our bye-laws and various agreements among shareholders, Hong Leong Asia is able to effectively approve and effect most corporate transactions. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Shareholders Agreement.” In addition, our shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights. There can be no assurance that Hong Leong Asia’s actions will be in the best interests of our other shareholders. See also “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” 11 Table of Contents We may experience a change of control as a result of sale or disposal of shares of our Common Stock by our controlling shareholders. As described above, HL Technology, a subsidiary of Hong Leong Asia, owns 7,831,169 shares of our Common Stock, as well as the special share. If HL Technology reduces its shareholding to less than 7,290,000 shares of our Common Stock, our Bye-Laws provide that the special share held by HL Technology will cease to carry any rights, and Hong Leong Asia may as a result cease to have control over us. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — The Special Share.” We believe that our only other significant shareholder is Coomber. If HL Technology sells or disposes of all of the shares of our Common Stock, we cannot determine what control arrangements will arise as a result of such sale or disposal (including changes in our management arising therefrom), or assess what effect those control arrangements may have, if any, on our financial condition, results of operations, business, prospects or share price. In addition, our financing arrangements have a covenant requiring Hong Leong Asia to retain ownership of the special share and that we remain a principal subsidiary (as defined in such arrangements) of Hong Leong Asia. A breach of that covenant may require us to pay all outstanding amounts under those financing arrangements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay such amounts or obtain alternate financing. The market price for our Common Stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our Common Stock. The market price could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • our interim operating results; • the availability of raw materials used in our engine production, particularly steel and cast iron; • the public’s reaction to our press releases and announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in particular the restatement of our 2005 financial statements and identification of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us, our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • operating and stock price performance of our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • changes in general economic conditions; • future sales of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur; • the announcement by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition; or • increases in labor and other costs. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price. Risks relating to Mainland China Substantially all of our assets are located in Mainland China, and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in Mainland China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in Mainland China. The economic system of Mainland China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government investment, the level of development, control of capital investment, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy and a higher level of management 12 Table of Contents autonomy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress, but the growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Economic growth has also been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to restrain the rate of such economic growth, control inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb property, stock market speculation and inflation. In August 2007, the Chinese government increased its capital reserve requirements for banks in an effort to control liquidity and slow down loan growth. In addition, the Chinese government has also in the past attempted to control inflation by controlling the prices of basic commodities. Severe measures or other actions by the Chinese government, such as placing additional controls on the prices of diesel and diesel-using products, could restrict our business operations and adversely affect our financial position. Although we believe that the economic reforms and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese government will continue to have a positive effect in the longer term on economic development in Mainland China and that we will continue to benefit in the longer term from these policies and measures, these policies and measures may, from time to time, be modified or reversed. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in Mainland China, in the policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations in Mainland China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China and in infrastructure investment in Mainland China. These developments could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business, by reducing the demand for our products. Adverse economic developments in China or elsewhere in the Asian region could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Since the late 1990s, many Asian countries have experienced significant changes in economic conditions, including, for example, substantial depreciation in currency exchange rates, increased interest rates, reduced economic growth rates, corporate bankruptcies, volatility in the market values of shares listed on stock exchanges, decreases in foreign currency turnover and government-imposed austerity measures. To date, China’s economy has generally been affected to a lesser extent than most other major Asian countries. However, we cannot assure you that China’s economy will not suffer more serious difficulties in the future. Demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases during periods of economic expansion and decreases during periods of economic slowdown. In the event that adverse economic developments occur in China, our sales may decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could therefore suffer. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedent value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general including, for example, with respect to corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. Legislation over the past 27 years has significantly enhanced the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment in Mainland China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties and may not be consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions which may limit the legal protection available to foreign investors. Our operations in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. These regulations contain provisions that are required to be included in the articles of association of PRC companies and are intended to regulate the internal affairs of these companies. The PRC Company Law and these regulations, in general, and the provisions for the protection of shareholders’ rights and access to information, in particular, are less developed than those applicable to companies incorporated in the United States, Hong Kong or other developed countries or regions. In addition, the interpretation of PRC laws may be subject to policy changes which reflect domestic political changes. As China’s legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may have an adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition and results of operations. At the National People’s Congress held in March 2007, the Chinese government confirmed it intends to continue to implement a prudent fiscal and monetary policy so as not to over stimulate domestic demand. The Chinese government has also on various occasions reiterated its policy of furthering reforms in the socialist market economy and to increase the wealth of the rural population through development and subsidies programs. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have an adverse effect on business conditions in China generally or on our business in particular. We may not freely convert Renminbi into foreign currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our foreign currency requirements or to pay dividends to shareholders. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are generated by our Chinese operating subsidiary, Yuchai, and are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our indebtedness is, or in the future may be, denominated in US dollars and other 13 Table of Contents foreign currencies. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment, overseas borrowings by Chinese entities and proceeds of overseas public offering by Chinese entities. Some of the conversions between Renminbi and foreign currency under capital account are subject to the prior approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, as a foreign invested enterprise, may purchase foreign currency without the approval of SAFE for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends, by providing commercial documents evidencing these transactions. Our Chinese operating subsidiary may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a cap approved by SAFE) to satisfy foreign currency liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, therefore, may not be able to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy its foreign currency requirements to pay dividends to us for our use in making any future dividend payments or to satisfy other foreign currency payment requirements. Foreign currency transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from SAFE. This could affect our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Avian flu, in various parts of China and other countries may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. In 2003, several countries, including China, experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which severely restricted the level of economic activity in affected areas, including Beijing and Guangdong Province. The SARS epidemic in China had an adverse impact on the sale of engines, particularly during the second and third quarters in 2003. Although this SARS outbreak was brought under control during 2003, there have been a number of cases reported in China and elsewhere in the Asia region since that outbreak. In addition, an infectious strain of influenza known as the Avian flu has also been reported from time to time in China, Hong Kong and other parts of Asia. Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Risks relating to our investments in HLGE and TCL As of December 31, 2006, we had a 45.4% interest in HLGE and a 36.6% interest in TCL. As of June 30, 2008, we had a 45.4% interest in HLGE and a 34.4% interest in TCL. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Business Expansion and Diversification Plan.” Set forth below are risks related to our equity interests in these entities. The HLGE group’s hotel ownership and management business may be adversely affected by risks inherent in the hotel industry. The HLGE group operates hotels primarily in the PRC and Malaysia. The HLGE group’s financial performance is dependent on the performance of each of the hotels it operates. The HLGE group’s hotel ownership and management business are exposed to risks which are inherent in and/or common to the hotel industry and which may adversely affect the HLGE group’s financial performance, including the following: • changes to the international, regional and local economic climate and market conditions (including, but not limited to; changes to regional and local populations, changes in travel patterns and preferences, and oversupply of or reduced demand for hotel rooms that may result in reduced occupancy levels and performance for the hotels it operates); • changes to the political, economic, legal or social environments of the countries in which the HLGE group operates (including developments with respect to inflation, interest rates, currency fluctuations, governmental policies, real estate laws and regulations, taxation, fuel costs and expropriation); • increased threat of terrorism, terrorist events, airline strikes, hostilities between countries or increased risk of natural disasters or viral epidemics that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of travelers and tourists; • changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those relating to the operation of hotels, preparation and sale of food and beverages, occupational health and safety working conditions and laws and regulations governing its relationship with employees); 14 Table of Contents • competition from other international, regional and independent hotel companies, some of which may have greater name recognition and financial resources than the HLGE group (including competition in relation to hotel room rates, convenience, services or amenities offered); • losses arising out of damage to the HLGE group’s hotels, where such losses may not be covered by the insurance policies maintained by the HLGE group; • increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, utility costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; • fluctuations in foreign currencies arising from the HLGE group’s various currency exposures; • dependence on leisure travel and tourism; • the outbreak of communicable diseases, such as the Avian flu, which if not contained, could potentially adversely affect the operations of the HLGE group and its business in the hospitality industry; and • adverse effects of a downturn in the hospitality industry. The above factors may materially affect the performance of those hotels and the profitability and financial condition of the HLGE group. The hospitality business is a regulated business. The operation of hotels in the PRC and Malaysia is subject to various laws and regulations. The withdrawal, suspension or non-renewal of any of the hotels’ licenses, or the imposition of any penalties, as a result of any infringement or non-compliance with any requirement, will have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations of the hotels that the HLGE group operates. Further, any changes in such laws and regulations may also have an impact on the businesses at the hotels and result in higher costs of compliance. In addition, any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or other penalties by the relevant authorities. This could have an adverse impact on the revenues and profits of HLGE group or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the hotels. The TCL group’s recently announced strategy of repositioning its principal business from consumer electronics distribution to real estate and related infrastructure investment in pan-Asian region, if approved by its shareholders, may not be successful. TCL announced in May 2008 that it plans to reposition its principal business from consumer electronics distribution to real estate and related infrastructure investment in pan-Asian region. TCL also announced that TCL may divest those assets that will no longer form part of the core activity of the Company going forward. This plan is subject to TCL receiving any required regulatory and shareholders’ approvals. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. Even if such approvals are obtained, there is no assurance that this repositioning of TCL’s business will be successful or profitable. The TCL group’s principal business involves the distribution of third party branded and proprietary branded consumer electronic products with operations mainly in the PRC (including Hong Kong). This business is highly competitive and faces significant competition from other renowned brands. The TCL group faces intense competition from a large number of established companies and emerging companies in the consumer electronics market and it expects this competition to continue or even intensify as the consumer electronic market evolves. The consumer electronic markets in which the TCL group operates are characterized by frequent product introductions, short product lifecycles, aggressive pricing practices and downward pressure on gross margins. Many of the TCL group’s current and potential competitors have substantially greater resources including financial, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources. Some of the TCL group’s competitors may also have greater name recognition and market presence, longer operating histories, greater market power and product depth, lower cost structures and larger customer bases. The TCL group’s competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products at competitive prices, which may result in loss of market share by the TCL group and may force the TCL group to lower price on the products it distributes, which may result in reduced margins for those products. These competitive pressures may also cause the TCL group’s potential customers to delay or defer their purchasing decisions in anticipation of potential new products, lowering prices, or both. If the TCL group is not able to compete successfully in the future with its existing or potential competitors, there will be a material adverse effect on the TCL group’s business and financial results. 15 Table of Contents Consumer spending patterns for products such as consumer electronics are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, wage rates, inflation, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the economy of the PRC specifically or the consumer electronics industry globally or an uncertain economic outlook could have a material adverse effect on the sales of the TCL group. Both the HLGE group and the TCL group may need to raise additional capital for growth. Each of the HLGE group and the TCL group will require funds for its core businesses and to invest in future growth opportunities. There is no assurance that either the HLGE group or the TCL group would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to finance such endeavors. Accordingly, the HLGE group and/or the TCL group may, depending on the cash flow requirements and financial condition, need to raise additional funds by issuing equity or a combination of equity and debt or by entering into strategic relationships or through other arrangements. Any additional equity financing by HLGE or TCL may dilute our equity interests in HLGE and TCL, respectively. Any debt financing may contain restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, future capital raising and other financial and operational matters. Failure to obtain additional financing where such financing is required on acceptable terms, will adversely affect the HLGE group’s and/or the TCL group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group’s and/or the TCL group’s ability to pursue its growth plans. The HLGE group may be unable to raise sufficient funds to pay our debt. The HLGE group will require funds to repay its outstanding debt owed to us. There is no assurance that the HLGE group would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to redeem the outstanding bonds held by us. Failure to obtain sufficient funds to repay outstanding debt will adversely affect the HLGE group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group’s ability to redeem its outstanding bonds held by us which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 