Risk Factors Risks relating to our shares and share ownership Our controlling shareholder’s interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. Our controlling shareholder, Hong Leong Asia Ltd., or Hong Leong Asia, indirectly owns 10,248,013, or 27.5%, of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, as well as a special share that entitles it to elect a majority of our directors. Hong Leong Asia controls us through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hong Leong (China) Limited, or Hong Leong China, and through HL Technology Systems Pte Ltd, or HL Technology, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hong Leong China. HL Technology owns approximately 21.0% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock and has since August 2002 been the registered holder of the special share. Hong Leong Asia also owns, through another wholly-owned subsidiary, Well Summit Investments Limited, approximately 6.5% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Hong Leong Asia is a member of the Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte Ltd. or Hong Leong Investment group of companies. Prior to August 2002, we were controlled by Diesel Machinery (BVI) Limited, or Diesel Machinery, which, until its dissolution, was a holding company controlled by Hong Leong China and was the prior owner of the special share. Through HL Technology’s stock ownership and the rights accorded to the Special Share under our bye-laws and various agreements among shareholders, Hong Leong Asia is able to effectively approve and effect most corporate transactions. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Shareholders Agreement.” In addition, our shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights. There can be no assurance that Hong Leong Asia’s actions will be in the best interests of our other shareholders. See also “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” 8 Table of Contents We may experience a change of control as a result of sale or disposal of shares of our Common Stock by our controlling shareholders. As described above, HL Technology, a subsidiary of Hong Leong Asia, owns 7,831,169 shares of our Common Stock, as well as the special share. If HL Technology reduces its shareholding to less than 7,290,000 shares of our Common Stock, our Bye-Laws provide that the special share held by HL Technology will cease to carry any rights, and Hong Leong Asia may as a result cease to have control over us. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — The Special Share.” If HL Technology sells or disposes of all of the shares of our Common Stock, we cannot determine what control arrangements will arise as a result of such sale or disposal (including changes in our management arising therefrom), or assess what effect those control arrangements may have, if any, on our financial condition, results of operations, business, prospects or share price. In addition, certain of our financing arrangements have covenants requiring Hong Leong Asia to retain ownership of the special share and that we remain a principal subsidiary (as defined in such arrangements) of Hong Leong Asia. A breach of that covenant may require us to pay all outstanding amounts under those financing arrangements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay such amounts or obtain alternate financing. The market price for our Common Stock may be volatile. There continues to be volatility in the market price for our Common Stock. The market price could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • our interim operating results; • the availability of raw materials used in our engine production, particularly steel and cast iron; • the public’s reaction to our press releases and announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us, our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • operating and stock price performance of our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • changes in general economic conditions, especially the sustainability of the global recovery; • future sales of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur; or • the announcement by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition. As a result of the global financial crisis, global stock markets experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. According to the World Bank’s report titled Global Economic Prospects 2010, although the global economy has passed the worst of the financial crisis, the recovery remains very fragile with uncertainty over its sustainability due to concerns over the early withdrawal of the various stimulus measures. The weak labor market, high levels of unused capacity and the tightening of credit together with sovereign debt risks especially in Europe and the formation of asset bubbles in Asia may result in market fluctuations which may materially adversely affect our stock price. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to US Holders. A non-United States corporation is considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the total value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income ("passive assets"). For this purpose, the total value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our shares. We believe that our shares should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year that ended on December 31, 2009. However, there is no guarantee that our shares will not be treated as stock of a PFIC for any future taxable year. Our PFIC status will be affected by, among other things, the market value of our shares and the assets and operations of our Company and subsidiaries. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US Holder (defined below) holds our shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the US Holder. See “Item 10 Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation-PFIC Rules”. Risks relating to our company and our business The diesel engine business in China is dependent in large part on the performance of the Chinese and the global economy, as well as Chinese government policy. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected by slowdowns in the Chinese and the global economy, as well as Chinese government policies affecting our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. During periods of economic expansion, the demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases. Conversely, uncertainty about current global economic conditions or adverse changes in the economy could lead to a significant decline in the diesel engine industry which is generally adversely affected by a decline in demand. As a result, the performance of the Chinese economy will likely affect, to a significant degree, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. For example, the various 9 Table of Contents austerity measures taken by the Chinese government from time to time to regulate economic growth and control inflation have in prior periods significantly weakened demand for trucks in China, and may have a similar effect in the future. In particular, austerity measures that restrict access to credit and slow the rate of fixed investment (including infrastructure development) adversely affect demand for, and production of, trucks and other commercial vehicles. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase costs associated with developing our products, increase the cost and decrease the availability of potential sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from our investments, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Although recent data suggests that a global recovery has begun, it remains very fragile with uncertainty over the sustainability of the recovery due to concerns over the early withdrawal of stimulus measures implemented to address the global financial crisis, the formation of asset bubbles in certain sectors of the economy arising from excess liquidity, weak labor market, sovereign debt risks especially in Europe and high levels of unused capacity. On February 18, 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced that it would raise interest rates for emergency bank loans indicating the U.S. government’s tightening of its loose monetary policy. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in automobile spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and reduced unit sales. Our revenues and gross margins are based on certain levels of consumer and corporate spending. The current conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If our projections of these expenditures fail to materialize due to reductions in consumer or corporate spending as a result of uncertain conditions in the macroeconomic environment, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. As a result of the current tightening of credit in financial markets, our customers and suppliers may experience serious cash flow problems and as a result, may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. While the global financial crisis has had an adverse impact on China’s economic growth as reflected in the fall in growth rates from 9% to 6.8% in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 respectively to 6.1% in the first quarter of 2009 according to the National Bureau of Statistics, the trend reversed from the second quarter of 2009 onwards culminating in a growth rate of 8.7% for the whole of 2009 surpassing the Chinese government’s growth rate target of 8%. The World Bank in its report titled Global Economic Prospects 2010 anticipates China’s growth rate in 2010 and 2011 to be 9%, the highest level among the world’s major economies and on March 5, 2010, Premier Wen Jiabao in his address to the Chinese Parliament said that China is targeting 8% economic growth in 2010. On November 10, 2008, the Chinese government announced a 4 trillion yuan stimulus package to maintain economic stability and development through spending on infrastructure projects and in March 2009 at the 11th National People’s Congress, further outlined a package of measures to drive economic growth. In addition, it was announced that a total of Rmb 908 billion of the central government investments in 2009 would be spent on key infrastructure construction, technology innovation, environmental protection and low-income housing. The measures adopted by the Chinese government to ensure continued economic growth have had a positive effect on the economy resulting in concerns over the economy overheating and the implementation of measures to cool the economy. While the recovery in China’s economy can be attributed to the implementation of the proactive fiscal policy and moderately loose monetary policy as well as the stimulus measures adopted by the Chinese government, there is no assurance that such stimulus measures will be continued. The People’s Bank of China had on January 12, 2010 and on February 12, 2010 increased the reserve requirements of state-owned banks by 50 basis points each time in an effort to cool the economy over fears of inflation and the threat of asset bubbles caused by rampant bank lending in 2009. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase costs associated with developing our products, increase the cost and decrease the availability of potential sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from our investments. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide macroeconomic downturn. The business and prospects for the diesel engine industry, and thus the business and prospects of our company, may also be adversely affected by Chinese government policy. For example, in 1998, the Chinese government announced a major initiative to boost consumer demand through investments in infrastructure projects and increased availability of bank credit. As a result, demand for trucks and other commercial vehicles, and thus demand for diesel engines, continued to increase from 2002 to 2004. The sales for commercial vehicles increased by 22.2% in 2007 due to the strong economic growth achieved and continued investment in infrastructure building by the Chinese government. (Source: China Automotive Industry Newsletter for 2007). As at December 31, 2008, the overall sales of commercial vehicles had reduced by approximately 5.25 % compared to 2007. This was due to the effects of the global financial crisis in the third quarter of 2008 and also the implementation of the National III emission standards which resulted in advanced purchase of vehicles in the first half of 2008. (Source: China Automotive Industry Newsletter for 2008) However, the overall sales of commercial vehicles between January and November 2009 was approximately 12 million units, an 10 Table of Contents increase of 42.39% as compared to the same period in 2008 (Source: China Automotive Industry Newsletter for 2009). This was partly due to the Chinese government’s stimulus measures to maintain economic stability which includes up to 50% purchase tax reduction relating to the purchase of cars below 1.6L. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not change its policy in the future to de-emphasize the use of diesel engines, and any such change will adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures to avoid overheating in certain sectors of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies and increases in bank interest rates. See “— Risks relating to Mainland China — Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position.” Our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be adversely affected if we are unable to implement the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement. We own 76.4% of the outstanding shares of Yuchai, and one of our primary sources of cash flow continues to be our share of the dividends, if any, paid by Yuchai and investment earnings thereon. As a result of the agreement reached with Yuchai and its related parties pursuant to the July 2003 Agreement, we discontinued legal and arbitration proceedings initiated by us in May 2003 relating to difficulties with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In furtherance of the terms of the July 2003 Agreement, we, Yuchai and Coomber Investments Limited, or Coomber, entered into the Reorganization Agreement in April 2005, as amended in December 2005 and November 2006, and agreed on a restructuring plan for our company intended to be beneficial to our shareholders. In June 2007, we, along with Yuchai, Coomber and the State Holding Company, entered into the Cooperation Agreement. The Cooperation agreement amends certain terms of the Reorganization Agreement and as so amended, incorporates the terms of the Reorganization Agreement. Pursuant to the amendments to the Reorganization Agreement, the Company has agreed that the restructuring and spin-off of Yuchai will not be effected, and, recognizing the understandings that have been reached between the Company and the State Holding Company to jointly undertake efforts to expand the business of Yuchai, the Company will not seek to recover the anti-dilution fee of US$20 million that was due from Yuchai. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — History and Development — Reorganization Agreement.” No assurance can be given as to when the business expansion requirements relating to Yuchai as contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement will be fully implemented, or that implementation of the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement will effectively resolve all of the difficulties faced by us with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In addition, the Reorganization Agreement contemplates the continued implementation of our business expansion and diversification plan adopted in February 2005. One of the goals of this business expansion and diversification plan is to reduce our financial dependence on Yuchai. Thus far, we have acquired strategic stakes in TCL and HLGE. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Business Expansion and Diversification Plan.” Nonetheless, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully expand and diversify our business. We may also not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, or secure funding to consummate such acquisitions or successfully integrate such acquired businesses within our operations. Any failure to implement the terms of the Reorganization Agreement and Cooperation Agreement, including our continued expansion and diversification, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Additionally, although the Cooperation Agreement amends certain provisions of the Reorganization Agreement and also acknowledges the understandings that have been reached between us and the State Holding Company to jointly undertake efforts to expand and diversify the business of Yuchai, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement those efforts or as to when the transactions contemplated therein will be consummated. We have and may continue to experience disagreements and difficulties with the Chinese shareholders in Yuchai. Although we own 76.4% of the outstanding shares of Yuchai, and believe we have proper legal ownership of our investment and a controlling financial interest in Yuchai, in the event there is a dispute with Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders regarding our investment in Yuchai, we may have to rely on the Chinese legal system for remedies. The Chinese legal system may not be as effective as compared to other more developed countries such as the United States. See “— Risks relating to Mainland China — The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors.” We have in the past experienced problems from time to time in obtaining assistance and cooperation of Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders in the daily management and operation of Yuchai. We have, in the past also experienced problems from time to time in obtaining the assistance and cooperation of the State Holding Company in dealing with other various matters, including the implementation of corporate governance procedures, the payment of dividends, the holding of Yuchai board meetings and the resolution of employee-related matters. Examples of these problems are described elsewhere in this Annual Report. The July 2003 Agreement, the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement are intended to resolve certain issues relating to our share ownership in Yuchai and the continued corporate 11 Table of Contents governance and other difficulties which we have had with respect to Yuchai. As part of the terms of the Reorganization Agreement, Yuchai agreed that it would seek the requisite shareholder approval prior to entering into any material transactions (including any agreements or arrangements with parties related to Yuchai or any of its shareholders) and that it would comply with its governance requirements. Yuchai also acknowledged and affirmed the Company’s continued rights as majority shareholder to direct the management and policies of Yuchai through Yuchai’s Board of Directors. Yuchai’s Articles of Association have been amended and such amended Articles of Association as approved by the Guangxi Department of Commerce on December 2, 2009, entitle the Company to elect nine of Yuchai’s 13 directors, thereby reaffirming the Company’s right to effect all major decisions relating to Yuchai. While Yuchai has affirmed the Company’s continued rights as Yuchai’s majority shareholder and authority to direct the management and policies of Yuchai, no assurance can be given that disagreements and difficulties with Yuchai’s management and/or Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders will not recur, including implementation of the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement, corporate governance matters or related party transactions. Such disagreements and difficulties could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements in the future, or cause us not to be able to provide timely financial information, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. We restated our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, and reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that as of December 31, 2005 to 2008, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and as of December 31, 2006 to 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. In addition, in connection with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this Annual Report, management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and has concluded that as of December 31, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective. Our current independent registered public accounting firm has expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. See “Item 15 — Controls and Procedures.” Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or improve existing controls or implement new controls could result in additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations which in turn could cause our shares to be de-listed or suspended from trading on the NYSE. In addition, any such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and adversely affect the results of annual management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price. Our exposure to the Dongfeng Group has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our sales are concentrated among the Dongfeng Group which includes the Dongfeng Automobile Company, one of the largest state-owned automobile companies in China, and other major diesel truck manufacturers controlled by or affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company. In 2009, sales to the Dongfeng Group accounted for 19.0% of our total net revenues, of which sales to our two largest customers, Liuzhou Dongfeng Automobile and Hubei Dongfeng Automobile, accounted for 5.6% and 3.4%, respectively. Although we consider our relationship with the Dongfeng Group to be good, the loss of one or more of the companies within the 12 Table of Contents Dongfeng Group as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In addition, we are dependent on the purchases made by the Dongfeng Group from us and have exposure to their liquidity arising from the high level of accounts receivable from them. We cannot assure you that the Dongfeng Group will be able to repay all the money they owe to us. In addition, the Dongfeng Group may not be able to continue purchasing the same volume of products from us which would reduce our overall sales volume. The Dongfeng Group also competes with us in the diesel engine market in China. Although we believe that the companies within the Dongfeng Group generally make independent purchasing decisions based on end-user preferences, we cannot assure you that truck manufacturers affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company will not preferentially purchase diesel engines manufactured by companies within the Dongfeng Group over those manufactured by us. Competition in China from other diesel engine manufacturers may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. The diesel engine industry in China is highly competitive. We compete with many other China domestic companies, most of which are state-owned enterprises. Some of our competitors have formed joint ventures with or have technology assistance relationships with foreign diesel engine manufacturers or foreign engine design consulting firms and use foreign technology that is more advanced than ours. We expect competition to intensify as a result of: • improvements in competitors’ products; • increased production capacity of competitors; • increased utilization of unused capacity by competitors; and • price competition. In addition, if restrictions on the import of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts into China are reduced, foreign competition could increase significantly. In the medium-duty diesel engine market, our 6108 medium-duty engine, introduced in 1997, has been competing with the 6110 medium-duty engine offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to maintain or improve our current market share or develop new markets for our medium-duty diesel engines. In 2008, 6108 medium-duty engines sales volumes decreased approximately 4.7% compared to its sales in 2007. In 2009, we had medium-duty engine sales of 162,320 units, representing 34.6% of our sales. With the improved highway road system as a result of the Chinese government’s investment in infrastructure, truck market sales growth is trending towards heavy-duty engines. In the heavy-duty diesel engine market, we introduced the 6112 heavy-duty engine in late 1999. Due to a delay in the commercial production of the 6112 engine, however, we were not able to benefit from the competitive advantages of an early entry into the China domestic market for heavy-duty engines. Moreover, the market for heavy-duty diesel engines in China is price-sensitive. We commenced engine development of the 6L heavy-duty engine (formerly referred to as 6113) in 2003 and introduced the 6M heavy-duty engine family for heavy-duty trucks and passenger buses in 2004. We cannot assure you that our 6112, 6L or 6M heavy-duty engines will be able to compete successfully in the heavy-duty diesel engine market in China with the existing producers or any new entrants. In the light-duty diesel engine market, our 4-Series engines (which include 4108, 4110 and 4112 light-duty engines) introduced in 2000 were met with weak consumer demand due to strong competition and a high pricing structure. Yuchai’s first sales of the 4F engines occurred in March 2005. Yuchai expects growth of this new engine to strengthen over the next few years and become a significant contributor to its sales growth. In 2008, the unit sales of 4-series engines fell slightly by 1.8% over 2007 partially due to the global financial crisis in the last quarter of 2008. In 2009, the unit sales of 4-series engines grew by approximately 32.4% over 2008, and this was due to the stimulus measures introduced by the PRC government. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to improve our market share for light-duty diesel engines, and we may, in the future, decide to cease production of one or more of the models we are currently producing. 13 Table of Contents Our long-term business prospects will depend largely upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices. Our competitors in the diesel engine markets may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers. Competition in the end-user markets, mainly the truck market, may also lead to technological improvements and advances that render our current products obsolete at an earlier than expected date, in which case we may have to depreciate or impair our production equipment more rapidly than planned. Failure to introduce or delays in the introduction of new or improved products at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to continue our sales growth. We have achieved consistent growth in net sales during the fiscal year 2009 with net sales increasing by 26.6% in 2009. We cannot assure you that we can continue to increase our net sales or maintain our present level of net sales. For example, we may not be able to increase our net sales commensurate with our increased levels of production capacity. Moreover, our future growth is dependent in large part on factors beyond our control, such as the continued economic growth in China. The global financial crisis had an adverse impact on the economic growth outlook for China in 2008 and in response, the Chinese government, on November 10, 2008 announced a 4 trillion yuan stimulus package with an aim to maintain economic stability and development through spending on infrastructure projects. In March 2009, at the 11th National People’s Congress, the Chinese government further outlined a package of measures to drive economic growth. In addition, the Chinese government also announced that a total of Rmb 908 billion of the central government investments in 2009 would be spent on key infrastructure construction, technology innovation, environmental protection and low-income housing. The stimulus measures adopted by the Chinese government to ensure continued economic growth have had a positive effect on the economy but there is no assurance that such stimulus measures will continue to be implemented due to concerns over the overheating of the economy partly a consequence of the stimulus measures and the moderately loose monetary policy adopted in 2009 to counter the adverse impact of the global financial crisis. This has resulted in the implementation of measures to cool the economy such as the increase in state-owned banks’ reserve requirements in order to counter rising inflation and avoid asset price bubbles. We are unable to predict the sustainability of the global recovery and some countries may return to their pre-crisis growth rates faster than others. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly manage any future growth, including: • obtaining the necessary supplies, including the availability of raw materials; • hiring and training skilled production workers and management personnel; • manufacturing and delivering products for increased orders in a timely manner; • maintaining quality standards and prices; • controlling production costs; and • obtaining adequate funding on commercially reasonable terms for future growth. Furthermore, we have acquired in the past, and may acquire in the future, equity interests in engine parts suppliers and logistics and marketing companies. If we are unable to effectively manage or assimilate these acquisitions, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Production.” If we are not able to continuously improve our existing engine products and develop new diesel engine products or successfully enter into other market segments, we may become less competitive, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects will be adversely affected. As the Chinese automotive industry continues to develop, we will have to continuously improve our existing engine products, develop new diesel engine products and enter into new market segments in order to remain competitive. As a result, our long-term business prospects will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices and enter into new market segments. Future products may utilize different technologies and may require knowledge of markets that we do 14 Table of Contents not currently possess. Moreover, our competitors may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers than our products or enter into new markets with an early-entrant advantage. Any failure by us to introduce, or any delays in the introduction of, new or improved products at competitive prices or entering into new market segments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. On April 10, 2007, Yuchai signed a Cooperation Framework Agreement with Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., Ltd (“Geely”) and Zhejiang Yinlun Machinery Company Limited (“Yinlun”) to consider establishing a proposed joint venture company to develop diesel engines for passenger cars in China. In December 2007, further to the Cooperation Framework Agreement, Yuchai entered into an Equity Joint Venture Agreement with Geely and Yinlun, to form two joint venture companies in Tiantai, Zhejiang Province and Jining, Shandong Province, which have been duly incorporated. The joint venture companies will be primarily engaged in the development, production and sales of a proprietary diesel engine and its parts for passenger vehicles. On December 11, 2009, Yuchai entered into a joint venture agreement with Caterpillar (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (“Caterpillar China”) to establish a new joint venture company in China to provide remanufacturing services for and relating to Yuchai’s diesel engines and components and certain Caterpillar diesel engines and components. The new joint venture company, Yuchai Remanufacturing Services (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. was incorporated on April 7, 2010 in Suzhou, Jiangsu province. On August 11, 2009, Yuchai, pursuant to a Framework Agreement entered into with Jirui United Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. (“Jirui United”), a company jointly established by China International Marine Containers Group Ltd (“CIMC”) and Chery Automobile Co., Ltd. (“Chery”) (collectively referred to as “CIMC-Chery”), and Shenzhen City Jiusi Investment Management Co., Ltd (“Jiusi”) incorporated Y & C Engine Co., Ltd. in Wuhu City, Anhui Province (“the JV Company”) to produce heavy-duty vehicle engines with the displacement range from 10.5L to 14L. The key focus of the JV Company is the production of YC6K diesel engines. — See “Item 4. Information on the Company — New Products” for more information. There can be no assurance that these joint ventures will be successful or profitable. We may be unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund our capital requirements which could limit our growth potential. We believe that our cash from operations, together with any necessary borrowings, will provide sufficient financial resources to meet our projected capital and other expenditure requirements. If we have underestimated our capital requirements or overestimated our future cash flows, additional financing may be required. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to various uncertainties, including our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow, economic, political and other conditions in Mainland China, the Chinese government’s policies relating to foreign currency borrowings and the condition of the Chinese and international capital markets. If adequate capital is not available, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected. We could be exposed to the impact of interest rates and foreign currency movements with respect to our future borrowings. In addition, a devaluation of the Renminbi will increase the Renminbi cost of repaying our foreign currency denominated indebtedness and, therefore, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We may use borrowings from time to time to supplement our working capital requirements and to finance our business expansion and diversification plan. See “Item 5. Our Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A portion of our borrowings may be structured on a floating rate basis and denominated in US dollars, Singapore dollars or Renminbi. An increase in interest rates, or fluctuations in exchange rates between the Renminbi or Singapore dollars and US dollars, may increase our borrowing costs or the availability of funding and could affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In particular, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected by a devaluation of the Renminbi. In addition, an increase in interest rates may reduce the fair value of the debt securities issued by HLGE. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in Chinese government policies and to international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, has been based on rates set by the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, China reformed its foreign exchange regime by moving into a managed floating exchange rate system based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Renminbi would no longer be pegged to the US dollar. From July 20, 2005 to December 31, 2007, Renminbi appreciated about 11.9% against the US dollar, and has appreciated since then. On December 31, 2007, the PBOC rate was Rmb 7.2946 = US$1.00, and on December 31, 2008, the PBOC rate was Rmb 6.8346 = US$1.00. On December 31, 2009, the PBOC rate was Rmb 6.8282=US$1.00. As at March 1, 2010, the PBOC rate was Rmb 6.8267 = US$1.00. Since we may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi devaluations, future movements in the exchange rate of Renminbi and other currencies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents If China’s inflation increases or the prices of energy or raw materials increase, we may not be able to pass the resulting increased costs to our customers and this may adversely affect our profitability or cause us to suffer operating losses. Economic growth in China has, in the past, been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to control inflation. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb inflation which has resulted in a decrease in the rate of inflation. The global economic crisis has resulted in the rate of inflation, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, to slow to 1% in January 2009 and thereafter into negative territory until November and December 2009 where it increased to 0.6% and 1.9% respectively according to the National Bureau of Statistics. In January and February 2010, the inflation rates were 1.5% and 2.7% respectively. The effects of the stimulus measures implemented by the Chinese government have resulted in inflationary pressures and an increase in energy prices generally could cause our costs for raw materials required for the production of products to increase, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if we cannot pass these added costs on to customers. We may be adversely affected by environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese national and local environmental protection regulations which currently impose fees for the discharge of waste substances, require the payment of fines for pollution, and provide for the closure by the Chinese government of any facility that fails to comply with orders requiring us to cease or improve upon certain activities causing environmental damage. Due to the nature of our business, we produce certain amounts of waste water, gas, and solid waste materials during the course of our production. We believe our environmental protection facilities and systems are adequate for us to comply with the existing national, provincial and local environmental protection regulations. However, Chinese national, provincial or local authorities may impose additional or more stringent regulations which would require additional expenditure on environmental matters or changes in our processes or systems. The manufacture and sales of Euro 0 and Euro I engines in major urban areas became unlawful after August 31, 2004. After that date, the engines equipped with Euro 0 and Euro I engines are not permitted to be sold and used in major urban areas. The manufacture and sale of Euro II engines has been phased out from June 30, 2008. As of July 2008, China has officially implemented the National III emission standards throughout China. The increasingly stringent emission standards have led to the early implementation of the National IV emission standards in the main cities of Beijing and Shanghai in 2008 and 2009 respectively. This together with the various stimulus measures adopted by the Chinese government is driving commercial vehicle sales. While Yuchai produces diesel engines compliant with National IV emission standards, and has the ability to produce diesel engines compliant with National V emission standards, as well as develop alternative fuels and environmentally friendly hybrid engines with better fuel efficiency, there can be no assurance that Yuchai will be able to comply with these emission standards or that the introduction of these and other environmental regulations will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover risks related to our production and other operations. The amount of our insurance coverage for our buildings and equipment is at cost which could be less than replacement value, and we have no plans to increase the coverage. The amount of our insurance coverage for our inventory is at book value which could be less than replacement value, and we also have no plans to increase this coverage. In accordance with what we believe is customary practice among industrial equipment manufacturers in China, we insure only high risk assets, such as production property and equipment and certain inventory. However, our under insurance of other properties, facilities and inventory in accordance with this Chinese practice exposes us to substantial risks so that in the event of a major accident, our insurance recovery may be inadequate. We do not currently carry third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. We also do not carry business interruption insurance as such coverage is not customary in China. Losses incurred or payments required to be made by us which are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks relating to Mainland China Substantially all of our assets are located in Mainland China, and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in Mainland China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in Mainland China. The economic system of Mainland China differs from the 16 Table of Contents economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government investment, the level of development, control of capital investment, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy and a higher level of management autonomy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress, but the growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Economic growth has also been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to restrain the rate of such economic growth, control inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb property, stock market speculation and inflation. Severe measures or other actions by the Chinese government, such as placing additional controls on the prices of diesel and diesel-using products, could restrict our business operations and adversely affect our financial position. Although we believe that the economic reforms and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese government will continue to have a positive effect in the longer term on economic development in Mainland China and that we will continue to benefit in the longer term from these policies and measures, these policies and measures may, from time to time, be modified or reversed. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in Mainland China, in the policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations in Mainland China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China and in infrastructure investment in Mainland China. These developments could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business, by reducing the demand for our products. Adverse economic developments in China or elsewhere in the Asian region could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Since the late 1990s, many Asian countries have experienced significant changes in economic conditions, including, for example, substantial depreciation in currency exchange rates, increased interest rates, reduced economic growth rates, corporate bankruptcies, volatility in the market values of shares listed on stock exchanges, decreases in foreign currency turnover and government-imposed austerity measures. To date, China’s economy has generally been affected to a lesser extent than most other major Asian countries. However, we cannot assure you that China’s economy will not suffer more serious difficulties in the future especially during this period of a fragile world recovery following the recent global financial crisis which resulted in a slowdown in China’s economy. Demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases during periods of economic expansion and decreases during periods of economic slowdown. In the event that adverse economic developments occur in China, our sales may decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could therefore suffer. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedent value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general including, for example, with respect to corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. Since China’s economic reform and opening-up in late 1970s, legislation has significantly enhanced the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment in Mainland China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties and may not be consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions which may limit the legal protection available to foreign investors. Our operations in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. These regulations contain provisions that are required to be included in the articles of association of PRC companies and are intended to regulate the internal affairs of these companies. The PRC Company Law and these regulations, in general, and the provisions for the protection of shareholders’ rights and access to information, in particular, are less developed than those applicable to companies incorporated in the United States, Hong Kong or other developed countries or regions. In addition, the interpretation of PRC laws may be subject to policy changes which reflect domestic political changes. As China’s legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may have an adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We may not freely convert Renminbi into foreign currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our foreign currency requirements or to pay dividends to shareholders. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are generated by our Chinese operating subsidiary, Yuchai, and are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our indebtedness is, or in the future may be, denominated in US dollars and other foreign currencies. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment, overseas borrowings by Chinese entities and proceeds of overseas public offering by Chinese entities. Some of the conversions between Renminbi and foreign currency under capital account are subject to the prior approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, as a foreign invested enterprise, may purchase foreign currency without the approval of SAFE for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends, by providing commercial documents evidencing these transactions. Our Chinese operating subsidiary may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a cap approved by SAFE) to satisfy foreign currency liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, therefore, may not be able to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy its foreign currency requirements to pay dividends to us for our use in making any future dividend payments or to satisfy other foreign currency payment requirements. Foreign currency transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from SAFE. This could affect our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Furthermore, the General Affairs Department of SAFE promulgated a new circular in August 2008, pursuant to which, Renminbi converted from capital contribution in foreign currency to a domestic enterprise in China can only be used for the activities that are within the approved business scope of such enterprise and cannot be used for China domestic equity investment or acquisition, with limited exceptions. As a result, we may not be able to increase the capital contribution of our operating subsidiary, Yuchai and subsequently convert such capital contribution into Renminbi for equity investment or acquisition in China. Outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as the recent Influenza A (H1N1) virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Avian flu, in various parts of China and other countries may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. In April 2009, an outbreak of a new strain of influenza identified as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus occurred in Mexico resulting in a number of deaths. In a matter of weeks, the H1N1 virus had spread internationally but the symptoms in cases outside of Mexico were milder than world health officials had feared with fewer resulting deaths compared to Mexico, the epicentre of the epidemic. Although the virus has spread worldwide causing the World Health Organization (“WHO”) to declare the H1N1 virus outbreak a global pandemic on June 11, 2009, the WHO in January 2010 has said that the pandemic appears to be easing although it warned that a new wave of infections may result in the northern hemisphere in late winter or early spring. The high unpredictability of the future evolution of this new virus and the possibility of a widespread re-occurrence may have a significant impact on global economic activity in the midst of an already depressed global economy. In 2003, several countries, including China, experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which severely restricted the level of economic activity in affected areas, including Beijing and Guangdong Province. The SARS epidemic in China had an adverse impact on the sale of engines, particularly during the second and third quarters in 2003. Although this SARS outbreak was brought under control during 2003, there have been a number of cases reported in China and elsewhere in the Asia region since that outbreak. In addition, an infectious strain of influenza known as the Avian flu has also been reported from time to time in China, Hong Kong and other parts of Asia. Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Risks relating to our investments in HLGE and TCL As of December 31, 2009, we had a 45.4% equity interest in HLGE and a 34.4% equity interest in TCL. As of March 1, 2010, our interests in these two companies remained unchanged. On March 24, 2010, our equity interest in HLGE increased to 46.4% as a result of the conversion of a certain number of Series B redeemable convertible preference shares held by us into HLGE ordinary shares. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Business Expansion and Diversification Plan.” Set forth below are risks related to our equity interests in these entities. 18 Table of Contents The HLGE group’s hotel ownership and management business may be adversely affected by risks inherent in the hotel industry. The HLGE group operates hotels primarily in the PRC and Malaysia. The HLGE group’s financial performance is dependent on the performance of each of the hotels it operates. The HLGE group’s hotel ownership and management business are exposed to risks which are inherent in and/or common to the hotel industry and which may adversely affect the HLGE group’s financial performance, including the following: • changes to the international, regional and local economic climate and market conditions (including, but not limited to; changes to regional and local populations, changes in travel patterns and preferences, and oversupply of or reduced demand for hotel rooms that may result in reduced occupancy levels and performance for the hotels it operates); • changes to the political, economic, legal or social environments of the countries in which the HLGE group operates (including developments with respect to inflation, interest rates, currency fluctuations, governmental policies, real estate laws and regulations, taxation, fuel costs, expropriation, including the impact of the current global financial crisis); • increased threat of terrorism, terrorist events, airline strikes, hostilities between countries or increased risk of natural disasters or viral epidemics that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of travelers and tourists; • changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those relating to the operation of hotels, preparation and sale of food and beverages, occupational health and safety working conditions and laws and regulations governing its relationship with employees); • competition from other international, regional and independent hotel companies, some of which may have greater name recognition and financial resources than the HLGE group (including competition in relation to hotel room rates, convenience, services or amenities offered); • losses arising out of damage to the HLGE group’s hotels, where such losses may not be covered by the insurance policies maintained by the HLGE group; • increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, utility costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; • fluctuations in foreign currencies arising from the HLGE group’s various currency exposures; • dependence on leisure travel and tourism; • the outbreak of communicable diseases, such as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus and the Avian flu, which if not contained, could potentially adversely affect the operations of the HLGE group and its business in the hospitality industry; and • adverse effects of a downturn in the hospitality industry. The above factors may materially affect the performance of those hotels and the profitability and financial condition of the HLGE group. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer any losses arising from our investment in HLGE. The hospitality business is a regulated business. The operation of hotels in the PRC and Malaysia is subject to various laws and regulations. The withdrawal, suspension or non-renewal of any of the hotels’ licenses, or the imposition of any penalties, as a result of any infringement or non-compliance with any requirement, will have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations of the hotels that the HLGE group operates. Further, any changes in such laws and regulations may also have an impact on the businesses at the hotels and result in higher costs of compliance. In addition, any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or other penalties by the relevant authorities. This could have an adverse impact on the revenues and profits of HLGE group or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the hotels. 19 Table of Contents TCL group’s proposed new strategy of repositioning its principal business from consumer electronics distribution to real estate and related infrastructure investment in pan-Asian region may not be successful. TCL announced in May 2008 that it plans to reposition its principal business from consumer electronics distribution to real estate and related infrastructure investment in pan-Asian region. TCL also announced that TCL may divest those assets that will no longer form part of its core activity going forward. This plan is subject to TCL receiving any required regulatory and shareholders’ approvals. Further to its May 2008 announcement, on December 3, 2008, TCL announced that its Board of Directors had approved by a majority vote, with the nominee directors of Venture Delta Limited or Venture Delta, and Grace Star Services Ltd. or Grace Star, voting against the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with Payce Consolidated Limited (“Payce”), to enter into transactions in connection with certain properties located in Sydney, Australia. The investment amount by TCL was to be funded through a combination of cash, the issue of new shares in TCL and options to subscribe for TCL shares, and external debt. The MOU was subject to definitive agreements being entered into as well as fulfillment of certain conditions precedent including regulatory and shareholders’ approval, completion of satisfactory due diligence and obtaining of financing on acceptable terms. On April 29, 2009, TCL announced that the MOU would terminate on May 1, 2009 as one of the conditions precedent to be satisfied by Payce in connection with the entry into the transactions with TCL as contemplated by the MOU, had not been and will not be satisfied and its board of directors had decided that it was no longer in the best interests of Payce to complete the transactions contemplated by the MOU. On December 22, 2009, TCL announced that further to its announcement on December 1, 2009 on its proposed capital reduction and cash distribution exercise, its Board of Directors has resolved not to proceed with its efforts to reposition its principal business from consumer electronics to real estate and related infrastructure activities in the pan — Asian region. On December 1, 2009, we announced that concurrently with the capital reduction and cash distribution exercise to be undertaken by TCL, we intend to appoint a broker to sell 550,000,000 shares of TCL owned by us at a price of S$0.03 per share on an ex-distribution basis (“Placement”). As of December 31, 2009, a total of 536,000,000 shares out of the 550,000,000 shares available in the Placement have been taken up. However, the closing of the Placement is conditional upon the completion of the capital reduction and cash distribution exercise which can only proceed upon the receipt of approvals from TCL’s shareholders and the legal and regulatory authorities in Singapore. Shareholder approval of the capital reduction and cash distribution exercise was obtained by TCL on February 4, 2010. Subject to all the shares in the Placement being sold, our total shareholding in TCL will decrease from 34.4% to 13.4%. We are currently considering our options in relation to our investment in the TCL group including disposing of our entire shareholding in TCL. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer any losses arising from our investment in TCL. The TCL group’s principal business involves the distribution of third party branded and proprietary branded consumer electronic products with operations mainly in the PRC (including Hong Kong). This business is highly competitive and faces significant competition from other renowned brands. The TCL group continues to face intense competition from a large number of established companies and emerging companies in the consumer electronics market and it expects this competition to continue or even intensify as the consumer electronics market evolves with an increasing trend of manufacturers and brand owners adopting aggressive measures to market their products. The consumer electronic markets in which the TCL group operates are characterized by frequent product introductions, short product life cycles, aggressive pricing practices and downward pressure on gross margins. Many of the TCL group’s current and potential competitors have substantially greater resources including financial, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources. Although there is increasing consolidation in the market with retailers and manufacturers looking for safe and reliable partners to co-operate with, certain competitors of the TCL group have greater name recognition and market presence, longer operating histories, greater market power and product depth, lower cost structures and larger customer bases compared to the TCL group. The TCL group’s competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products at competitive prices, which may result in loss of market share by the TCL group and may force the TCL group to lower price on the products it distributes, which may result in reduced margins for those products. These competitive pressures may also cause the TCL group’s potential customers to delay or defer their purchasing decisions in anticipation of potential new products, lowering prices, or both. If the TCL group is not able to compete successfully in the future with its existing or potential competitors, there will be a material adverse effect on the TCL group’s business and financial results. Consumer spending patterns for products such as consumer electronics are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, wage rates, inflation, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. According to the World Bank’s report titled Global Economic Prospects 2010, although the global economy has passed the worst of the financial crisis, the recovery remains very fragile with uncertainty over its sustainability. There can be no assurance that consumer demand will increase or that the sales of the TCL group will not be materially and adversely affected by the uncertainty over the economic recovery. 20 Table of Contents The HLGE group may need to raise additional capital. The HLGE group will likely require funds for its core businesses and to invest in future growth opportunities. There is no assurance that the HLGE group would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to finance such endeavors. Accordingly, the HLGE group may, depending on the cash flow requirements and financial condition, need to raise additional funds by issuing equity or a combination of equity and debt or by entering into strategic relationships or through other arrangements. Any additional equity financing by HLGE may dilute our equity interests in HLGE. Any debt financing may contain restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, future capital raising and other financial and operational matters. Failure to obtain additional financing where such financing is required on acceptable terms, will adversely affect the HLGE group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group ability to pursue its growth plans. The HLGE group may be unable to raise sufficient funds to pay their debt obligations to us. The HLGE group will require funds to repay its outstanding debt owed to us. On February 3, 2010, we announced the extension for another one year of the S$93,000,000 loan granted to HLGE by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Venture Lewis Limited (“Venture Lewis”) in February 2009 to refinance the outstanding zero coupon unsecured non-convertible bonds previously issued by HLGE and which matured on July 3, 2009 (the “Bonds”). Venture Lewis held a majority of the Bonds. Under the terms of the original loan agreement, on the maturity date of the Bonds, HLGE will redeem fully the Bonds held by all minority Bondholders and pay to Venture Lewis a portion of the principal and gross redemption yield. The remaining amount due to Venture Lewis on maturity date would be refinanced through an unsecured loan arrangement with a one-year term, renewable by mutual agreement on an annual basis. An option for HLGE to undertake a partial redemption of the Bonds on a pro-rata basis prior to the maturity date was included in the original loan agreement. On February 19, 2009, HLGE announced an early partial redemption on a pro-rata basis of up to S$9.0 million in principal amount of the outstanding bonds and on March 23, 2009, HLGE effected payment to all Bondholders. The terms of the new loan agreement are substantially similar to the original loan agreement. There is no assurance that the HLGE group would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to redeem the outstanding debt owing to us either through disposals of their non-core and non-performing assets or potential merger and acquisition opportunities to grow its earnings base. Failure to obtain sufficient funds to repay outstanding debt will adversely affect the HLGE group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group’s ability to repay its outstanding debts owing to us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our conversion of all our existing Series B redeemable convertible preference shares in HLGE may not be successful or may result in increased costs. As of March 1, 2010, through Grace Star, we held 13,957,233 Series A redeemable convertible preference shares or the Existing HLGE RCPS A and 93,229,170 Series B redeemable convertible preference shares or the Existing HLGE RCPS B, in the capital of HLGE. On February 12, 2010, HLGE announced the mandatory conversion of an aggregate of 18,935,883 Existing HLGE RCPS B into 18,935,883 ordinary shares in the capital of HLGE on March 18, 2010 (“Mandatory Conversion Date”). The Mandatory Conversion Date of the Existing HLGE RCPS A is in March 2015. By a written notice to HLGE on February 11, 2010, Grace Star notified HLGE that pursuant to HLGE’s Articles of Association, it will be converting only 17,300,000 out of the 93,229,170 Existing HLGE RCPS B it held into HLGE ordinary shares so as not to trigger a take-over obligation under the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers on the Mandatory Conversion Date. Grace Star has an option under HLGE’s Articles of Association to convert the remaining 75,929,170 Existing HLGE RCPS B into HLGE ordinary shares over a period of twenty-two months after the Mandatory Conversion Date. With the conversion of 17,300,000 Existing HLGE RCPS B into HLGE ordinary shares on the Mandatory Conversion Date, Grace Star’s shareholding interest in HLGE increased from 45.4% to 46.4% with effect from March 24, 2010 upon receipt of regulatory approval. To avoid triggering a take-over obligation under the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers, Grace Star is not allowed to acquire more than 1% of ordinary shares in HLGE in any six month period. As the extended twenty-two months period is insufficient to allow Grace Star to convert all of its remaining 75,929,170 Existing HLGE RCPS B into HLGE ordinary shares without triggering a take-over obligation, Grace Star is currently considering its options including extending the twenty-two months period by an amendment to HLGE’s Articles of Association to be approved by HLGE’s shareholders, partial redemption by HLGE over the twenty-two month period; partial disposal of the Existing HLGE RCPS B during the twenty-two month period or converting all of our Existing HLGE RCPS B thereby triggering a take-over offer pursuant to the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any of the options listed above or that we will not incur additional costs as a result of exercising any of the options. 21 Table of Contents 