Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our Company and our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to our Business By completing the November 2008 sale of our tire recycling business, we have sold the operations which have historically generated substantially all our revenue and profitability. Our remaining operations have lost money in the last eight consecutive quarters and may need additional working capital if we do not return to sustained profitability, which if not received, may force us to adjust operations accordingly. Green Tech Products has incurred operating losses of approximately $800,000 per year during each of the past two fiscal years, and had negative cash flow from operations and stagnant revenue growth during fiscal 2009. We are currently evaluating several new types of products and marketing agreements outside the playground and parks markets that would use Green Tech Product’s patented cold-cure process and exclusive school board contract network. Since the July 2009 acquisition of American Power Group’s dual fuel conversion operations, we have also made a significant investment in sales and marketing initiatives intended to promote American Power Group’s dual fuel conversion technology and establish broader market presence. We have launched a diesel generator maintenance and service group that we believe is unlike any other offered by our competition and will significantly differentiate us in the marketplace. Since the date of acquisition, American Power Group has incurred an operating loss of approximately $480,000. 7 We understand that our continued existence is dependent on our ability to generate positive operating cash flow, achieve profitable status on a sustained basis for all operations and settle existing obligations. Our fiscal 2010 budget reflects improved operating results in both our Green Tech Products and American Power Group subsidiaries, and we anticipate improved performance during the seasonally stronger second half of the fiscal year. Based on our fiscal 2010 budget and existing cash and marketable investments, we believe we will be able to satisfy our cash requirements. If Green Tech Products and American Power Group are unable to achieve sustained profitability during fiscal 2010 and we are unable to obtain additional financing to supplement our cash position, our ability to maintain our current level of operations could be materially and adversely affected. There is no guarantee we will be able to achieve sustained profitability of at either business. We will require additional funding to grow our business, which funding may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we do not obtain funding when we need it, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, if we have to sell securities in order to obtain financing, the rights of our current holders may be adversely affected. In November 2008, our credit facility with Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. was terminated and we have not yet established any new credit facility. We will have to seek additional outside funding sources to satisfy our future financing demands if our operations do not produce the level of revenue we require to maintain and grow our business. We understand that achieving positive cash flow from operations as well as sustained profitability will be key components necessary to re-establish a new credit facility. Management is currently evaluating several financing alternatives that would enhance our financial position and provide growth capital to supplement our existing working capital position. We are diligently working to determine the feasibility of each alternative. We cannot assure investors that outside funding will be available to us at the time that we need it and in the amount necessary to satisfy our needs, or, that if such funds are available, they will be available on terms that are favorable to us. If we are unable to secure financing when we need it, our business will be adversely affected and we may need to discontinue some or all of our operations. If we have to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in order to secure additional funding, our current stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership of our shares. In the event that we issue securities or instruments other than common stock, we may be required to issue such instruments with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of our common stock. Improvement in our business depends on our ability to increase demand for our products and services. Factors that could limit demand for our products and services are adverse events or economic or other conditions affecting markets for our products and services, potential delays in product development, product and service flaws, changes in technology, changes in the regulatory environment and the availability of competitive products and services. The markets in which we offer our molded products and dual fuel conversion technology is highly competitive, fragmented and decentralized and our competitors may have greater technical and financial resources. The markets for our molded products and dual fuel conversion technology is highly competitive, fragmented and decentralized. Some of our larger competitors may have greater financial and technical resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. Competition could increase if new companies enter the markets in which we operate or our existing competitors expand their service lines. These factors may limit or prevent any further development of our businesses. Our success depends on the retention of our senior management and other key personnel. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management. The loss of any key member of senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Seasonal factors may affect our quarterly operating results. Seasonality may cause our total revenues to fluctuate. Our Green Tech Products subsidiary experiences a reduction playground tile and equipment sales during the winter as a majority of its current business is derived from the Midwestern United States where colder weather impacts the ability to install Green Tech’s products. Our American Power Group subsidiary will experience some seasonality in the “Hurricane Belt” located in the Southeastern U.S., where critical care installations are usually not scheduled during the July-October timeframe. Inflation and changing prices may hurt our business. Generally, we are exposed to the effects of inflation and changing prices. Given that our dual fuel conversion technology replaces a certain percentage of diesel fuel with natural gas, we would be impacted by any material change in the net fuel savings between the two fuels (for example, if diesel fuel prices decrease and natural gas prices increase). We have generally been unaffected by interest rate changes in fiscal 2009, because we no longer maintain any floating-rate debt. 8 If we acquire other companies or businesses we will be subject to risks that could hurt our business. A significant part of our business strategy is based on future acquisitions or significant investments in businesses that offer “green” products and services. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons. Any acquisitions completed by our company may be made at a premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired companies and competition may cause us to pay more for an acquired business than its long-term fair market value. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to integrate any future acquired businesses, at all or without significant distraction of management into our ongoing business. In order to finance acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to issue shares of our capital stock to the sellers of the acquired businesses and/or to seek additional funds through public or private financings. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to us and, in the case of an equity financing or the use of our stock to pay for an acquisition, may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. As we grow, we are subject to growth related risks. We are subject to growth-related risks, including capacity constraints and pressure on our internal systems and personnel. In order to manage current operations and any future growth effectively, we will need to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and to hire, train, motivate, manage and retain employees. We may be unable to manage such growth effectively. Our management, personnel or systems may be inadequate to support our operations, and we may be unable to achieve the increased levels of revenue commensurate with the increased levels of operating expenses associated with this growth. Any such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and prospects. In addition, the cost of opening new facilities and the hiring of new personnel for those facilities could significantly decrease our profitability, if the new facilities do not generate sufficient additional revenue. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a number of patents, as well as on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or that our competitors will not independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, no assurance can be given that any future patent applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Nor can we give any assurance that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid or enforceable, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design their products around any patents that may be issued to us. Risks Related to the Securities Market Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. Our common stock is thinly traded and an active public market for our stock may not develop. Consequently, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile. Additionally, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · we are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcements by us or by our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · regulatory developments; · additions or departures of senior management and other key personnel; · deviations in our results of operations from the estimates of securities analysts; and · future issuances of our common stock or other securities. 9 We have options and warrants currently outstanding. Exercise of these options and warrant will cause dilution to existing and new shareholders. As of September 30, 2009, we had options and warrants outstanding to purchase 3,902,500 additional shares of common stock. These reserved shares relate to the following: 3,452,500 shares for issuance upon exercise of awards granted under our 1993 Stock Option Plan, 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan and 2005 Stock Option Plan, and 450,000 shares for issuance upon exercise of other stock options and stock purchase warrants. The exercise of our options and warrants will cause additional shares of common stock to be issued, resulting in dilution to investors and our existing stockholders. As of September 30, 2009, approximately 31 million shares of our common stock were eligible for sale in the public market exclusive of the options and warrants noted above. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our shares, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our directors, executive officers and other principal stockholders owned approximately 25 percent of our outstanding common stock as of September 30, 2009. Accordingly, these stockholders could have a significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and also could prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be shareholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could prevent, deter or delay a change in control of our company. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws could have the effect, either alone or in combination with each other, of preventing, deterring or delaying a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 