Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in the IT industry and/or the economic environment may reduce demand for the IT hardware, software and services we sell. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, general economic conditions, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry introductions of new products, upgrades or methods of distribution. Weak economic conditions generally or a reduction in IT spending would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Net sales can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, and/or cause us to record write-downs of obsolete inventory, if we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes. Our operating results are also highly dependent upon our level of gross profit as a percentage of net sales, which fluctuates due to numerous factors, including changes in prices from partners, changes in the amount and timing of supplier reimbursements and marketing funds that are made available, volumes of purchases, changes in client mix, the relative mix of products sold during the period, general competitive conditions, the availability of opportunistic purchases and opportunities to increase market share. In addition, our expense levels, including the costs and salaries incurred in connection with the hiring of account executives, are based, in part, on anticipated net sales and the anticipated amount and timing of vendor funding. Therefore, we may not be able to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected net sales shortfall, and any such inability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. We rely on our partners for product availability, marketing funds, purchasing incentives and competitive products to sell. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers/publishers and indirectly through distributors. The loss of a partner could cause a disruption in the availability of products. Additionally, there is no assurance that, as manufacturers/publishers continue to sell directly to end users and through the distribution channel, they will not limit or curtail the availability of their product to resellers like us. In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our partners could increase our cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain manufacturers/publishers and distributors provide us with substantial incentives in the form of rebates, supplier reimbursements and marketing funds, early payment discounts, referral fees and price protections. Vendor funding is used to offset, among other things, inventory, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of net sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we do not grow our net sales over prior periods or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by manufacturers/publishers. Additionally, partners routinely change the requirements for, and the amount of, funds available. No assurance can be given that we will continue to receive such incentives or that we will be able to collect outstanding amounts relating to these incentives in a timely manner, or at all. A reduction in, the discontinuance of, a significant delay in receiving or the inability to collect such incentives, particularly related to programs with our largest vendors, HP and Microsoft, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although product is generally available from multiple sources via the distribution channel as well as directly from manufacturers/publishers, we rely on the manufacturers/publishers of products we offer not only for product availability and vendor funding, but also for development and marketing of products that compete effectively with products of manufacturers/publishers we do not currently offer, particularly Dell. Although we have the ability to sell, and from time to time do sell, Dell product if it is specifically requested by our clients and approved by Dell, we do not proactively advertise for or offer Dell products. Disruptions in our IT systems and voice and data networks, including the upgrade to mySAP and the migration of acquired businesses to our IT systems and voice and data networks, could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to our clients. Our ability to provide that level of service is largely dependent on the accuracy, quality and utilization of the information generated by our IT systems, which affects our ability to manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems and the reliability of our voice and data networks. We have been making and will continue to make enhancements and upgrades to our IT systems, including our current upgrade to mySAP. Additionally, certain assumed expense synergies are dependent on migrating acquired businesses to our IT systems. There can be no assurances that these enhancements or conversions will not cause disruptions in our business, and any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The conversion of EMEA to a new IT system platform is intended to enable us to sell hardware and services to clients in that region, and therefore any delay would have an adverse effect on future sales growth. Further, any delay in the timing could reduce and/or delay our expense savings, and any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if we complete conversions that shorten the life of existing technology or impair the value of the existing system, we could incur additional depreciation expense and/or impairment charges. Although we have built redundancy into most of our IT systems, have documented system outage policies and procedures and have comprehensive data backup, we do not have a formal disaster recovery. Substantial interruption in our IT systems or in our telephone communication systems would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The integration and operation of acquired businesses may disrupt our business and create additional expenses, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Integration of an acquired business involves numerous risks, including assimilation of operations of the acquired business and difficulties in the convergence of IT systems, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, assumption of unknown and unquantifiable liabilities, the potential loss of key teammates and/or clients, difficulties in completing strategic initiatives already underway in the acquired companies, and unfamiliarity with partners of the acquired company, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our integration of acquired businesses assumes certain synergies and other benefits. We cannot assure that these risks or other unforeseen factors will not offset the intended benefits of the acquisitions, in whole or in part. 13 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. The IT hardware, software and services industry is intensely competitive, and actions of our competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business. Historically, competition in the industry had been based primarily on price, product availability, speed of delivery, credit availability and quality and breadth of product lines and, increasingly, it is also based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to client needs. We compete with manufacturers/publishers, including manufacturers/publishers of products we sell, as well as a large number and wide variety of marketers and resellers of IT hardware, software and services. Product manufacturers/publishers have programs to sell directly to business clients, particularly larger corporate clients, and are thus a competitive threat to us. In addition, the manner in which software products are distributed and sold and the manner in which publishers compensate channel partners like us are continually changing. Software publishers may intensify their efforts to sell their products directly to end-users, including our current and potential clients, and may reduce the compensation to resellers or change the requirements for earning these amounts. Other products and methodologies for distributing software may be introduced by publishers, present competitors or other third parties. An increase in the volume of products sold through any of these competitive programs or distributed directly electronically to end-users or a decrease in the amount of referral fees paid to us, or increased competition for providing services to these clients, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we believe our industry will see further consolidation as product resellers and direct marketers combine operations or acquire or merge with other resellers, service providers and direct marketers to increase efficiency, service capabilities and market share. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their product and service offerings. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. Generally, pricing is very aggressive in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher net sales, cost reductions, greater sales of services, which are typically at higher gross margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our competitors in each of our operating segments have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors have higher margins and/or lower operating cost structures, allowing them to price more aggressively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model, whereby software vendors develop and make their applications available for use over the Internet. In many cases, the SaaS model allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software without the associated complexity or high initial set-up and operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model and other new models could increase our competition or eliminate the need for a resale channel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have received an informal inquiry from the SEC and could be subject to stockholder litigation and other regulatory proceedings related to the Options Subcommittee’s investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the related restatement of our consolidated financial statements. We identified errors in the Company’s accounting related to stock option compensation expenses in prior periods and determined that corrections to our consolidated financial statements were required to reflect additional material charges for stock-based compensation expenses and related income tax effects. 14 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. There is a pending informal inquiry from the SEC regarding our historical option granting practices, and we cannot make any assurances regarding the results of that inquiry. One purported derivative lawsuit was filed and subsequently dismissed without prejudice at the request of the plaintiff. The Options Subcommittee’s investigation, our internal review and related activities have already required the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and any future related investigations or litigation could require further expenditures and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, if the Company is subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, all of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are risks associated with our international operations that are different than the risks associated with our operations in the U.S., and our exposure to the risks of a global market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations. We have operation centers in Australia, Canada, Germany, France, the U.S., and the United Kingdom, as well as sales offices in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the U.S., and sales presence in Austria, Ireland, New Zealand and Russia. In the regions in which we do not currently have a physical presence, such as Africa, Japan and India, we serve our clients through strategic relationships. In implementing our international strategy, we may face barriers to entry and competition from local companies and other companies that already have established global businesses, as well as the risks generally associated with conducting business internationally. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as: • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation or taxation; • changes in import/export duties; • trade restrictions; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • taxes and other restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • extended payment terms; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. In addition, until a payment history is established with clients in a new region, the likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations, on a timely basis or at all, could be less than expected. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves established with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. Furthermore, changes in policies and/or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations or the expropriation of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of their international operations. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Sales of software licenses are subject to seasonal changes in demand and resulting sales activities. With the acquisition of Software Spectrum, our product mix changed significantly. Prior to the acquisition of Software Spectrum in September 2006, software sales represented approximately 12% of net sales. In 2007, software sales represented 42% of our annual net sales. Our software business is subject to seasonal change. In particular, software sales are seasonally much higher in our second and fourth quarters. As a result, our quarterly results will be affected by lower demand in the first and third quarters. A majority of our costs are not variable and therefore a substantial reduction in sales during a quarter could have a negative effect on operating results. In addition, periods of higher sales activities during certain quarters may require a greater use of working capital to fund the business. During these periods, these increased working capital requirements could temporarily increase our leverage and liquidity needs and expose us to greater financial risk during those periods. Due to these seasonal changes, the operating results for any three-month period will not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent fiscal quarter or for a full fiscal year. Our acquisitions of businesses increase our outstanding debt and interest expense and lower the availability on our financing facilities. Additionally, there have been negative changes in the overall capital markets due to current economic factors in the lending industry. Our financing facilities include a $225.0 million accounts receivable securitization financing facility, a $75.0 million revolving line of credit and a $75.0 million five-year term loan. As of December 31, 2007, we had $202.3 million outstanding under these facilities and approximately $165.1 million, including $37.5 million of increased availability upon our request, was available. The availability under the accounts receivable securitization facility is subject to formulas based on our eligible trade accounts receivable. 15 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. The accounts receivable securitization financing facility expires in September 2009, and the revolving credit facility expires in September 2011. Additionally, most of our financing facilities have variable interest rates, which increase our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and may result in greater interest expense than we have forecasted. On January 24, 2008, we signed an agreement and plan of merger to acquire privately-held Calence, LLC. The cash purchase price for the Calence acquisition is $125.0 million and up to an additional $35.0 million in purchase price consideration if certain performance targets are achieved (subject to certain conditions) over the next four years. To facilitate the acquisition of Calence, we have received a commitment from a financial institution to provide up to $275.0 million in new credit to finance the acquisition and for general corporate purposes. It is contemplated that the new revolving facility will be funded through a syndicate of banks and will replace our current $75.0 million revolving credit facility and our $75.0 million term loan. These acquisitions will increase our outstanding debt and interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. International operations expose us to currency exchange risk and we cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations or the volatility of the U.S. dollar exchange rate on our business and operating results. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, including intercompany transactions outside the U.S. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will become more expensive in U.S. dollars to pay expenses with foreign currencies. In addition, currency devaluation against the U.S. dollar can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. We currently do not conduct any hedging activities, and, to the extent that we continue not to do so in the future, we may be vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange-rate fluctuations. In addition, some currencies are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit the ability to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict the effect of future exchange-rate fluctuations on business and operating results and significant rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign operations to U. S. dollars. Although the effect of currency fluctuations on our financial statements has not generally been material in the past, there can be no guarantee that the effect of currency fluctuations will not be material in the future. We depend on certain key personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the efforts of key management personnel. The loss of one or more of these leaders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to continue to attract or retain highly qualified executive personnel or that any such executive personnel will be able to increase stockholder value. We also believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, service and technical personnel, but we cannot offer assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Further, we make a significant investment in the training of our sales account executives and services engineers. Our inability to retain such personnel or to train them either rapidly enough to meet our expanding needs or in an effective manner for quickly changing market conditions could cause a decrease in the overall quality and efficiency of our sales staff, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If purchased goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. The purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Software Spectrum included a material allocation to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we perform an annual review in the fourth quarter of every year, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, to determine if the carrying value of the recorded goodwill is impaired. Events or circumstances that could trigger an impairment review include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, significant declines in our stock price for a sustained period or significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future results of operations. We have experienced volatility in our stock price over the past year. If our stock price declines for a sustained period, this may indicate a heightened risk that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable. We may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in a negative effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our public sector contracts could result in, among other things, fines or other liabilities. Net sales to public sector clients are derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental departments and agencies, as well as to educational institutions, through open market sales and various contracts and programs. Government contracting is a highly regulated area. Noncompliance with government procurement regulations or contract provisions could result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of government contracts, and suspension, debarment or ineligibility from doing business with the government. In addition, substantially all of our contracts in the public sector are terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency or upon default. The effect of any of these possible actions by any governmental department or agency or the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations or practices could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Rapid changes in product standards may result in substantial inventory obsolescence. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and product enhancements, both of which can decrease demand for current products or render them obsolete. In addition, in order to satisfy client demand, protect ourselves against product shortages, obtain greater purchasing discounts and react to changes in original equipment manufacturers’ terms and conditions, we may decide to carry relatively high inventory levels of certain products that may have limited or no return privileges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to inventory obsolescence on these products. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, and we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on copyright and trademark laws, unpatented proprietary know-how, and trade secrets and patents, as well as confidentiality, invention assignment, non-solicitation and non-competition agreements. There can be no assurance that these measures will afford us sufficient protection of our intellectual property, and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships, results of operations, financial condition and future growth prospects. In addition, our registered trademarks and tradenames are subject to challenge by other rights owners. This may affect our ability to continue using those marks and names. Likewise, many businesses are actively investing in, developing and seeking protection for intellectual property in the areas of search, indexing, e-commerce and other Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of on-line business models and methods, all of which are in addition to traditional research and development efforts for IT products and application software. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of these technologies are likely to arise in the future, and, from time to time, parties do assert various infringement claims against us in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing inquiries, lawsuits and other communications. If there is a determination that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be forced to stop selling infringing products or providing infringing services, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available, or be prevented from using the rights, which could force us to change our business practices in the future. Additionally, as we increase the geographic scope of our operations and the types of services provided under the Insight brand, there is a greater likelihood that we will encounter challenges to our tradenames, trademarks and service marks. We may not be able to use our principal mark without modification in all of our operations for all of our offerings, and these challenges may come from either governmental agencies or other market participants. These types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We issue equity-based awards, such as restricted stock units, under our long-term incentive plans, and these issuances dilute the interests of stockholders. We have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2007 Omnibus Plan and, previously, under our 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “1998 LTIP”) and other plans. At December 31, 2007, there were options outstanding to acquire 3,621,130 shares of our common stock, and there were 36,664 shares of restricted common stock and restricted stock units covering 1,072,193 shares of common stock unreleased (i.e., unvested). At December 31, 2007, there were 4,032,500 shares available for issuance under the 2007 Omnibus Plan. When stock options are exercised, the risk increases that our stockholders will experience dilution of earnings per share due to the increased number of shares outstanding. Also, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain equity capital may be affected, because the holders of outstanding options can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain needed capital on terms more favorable to us than those provided in outstanding options. 17 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholders rights agreement, as well as provisions of Delaware law and executive employment contracts, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which could have the effect (separately, or in combination) of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct of Board and stockholder meetings and election and removal of directors; and • specifying that stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. On December 14, 1998, each stockholder of record received one Preferred Share Purchase Right (“Right”) for each outstanding share of common stock owned. Each Right entitles stockholders to buy .00148 of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $88.88. The Rights will be exercisable if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of the common stock. However, should this occur, the Right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the Right’s exercise price, a number of shares of common stock having a market value at the time of twice the Right’s exercise price. Rights held by the 15% holder will become void and will not be exercisable to purchase shares at the bargain purchase price. If we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person acquires 15% or more of the our common stock, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase at the Right’s then current exercise price a number of the acquiring company’s common shares having a market value at the time of twice the Right’s exercise price. On January 11, 2008, the Board of Directors resolved to allow the current stockholder rights plan to expire in accordance with its terms on December 14, 2008. Also, on January 11, 2008, the Board of Directors amended our bylaws to provide that the Company will seek stockholder approval prior to its adoption of a stockholder rights plan, unless the Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, determines that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interest of our stockholders to adopt or extend a stockholder rights plan without delay. The amendment further provides that a stockholder rights plan adopted or extended by the Board without prior stockholder approval must provide that it will expire unless ratified by the stockholders of the Company within one year of adoption. Additionally, we have employment agreements with certain officers and management teammates under which severance payments would become payable in the event of specified terminations without cause or terminations under certain circumstances after a change in control. If such persons were terminated without cause or under certain circumstances after a change of control, and the severance payments under the current employment agreements were to become payable, the severance payments would generally range from three months of a teammate’s annual salary up to two times the teammate’s annual salary and bonus. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or employment agreements, or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Sales of additional common stock and securities convertible into our common stock may dilute the voting power of current holders. We may issue equity securities in the future whose terms and rights are superior to those of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock. These are “blank check” preferred shares, meaning that our Board of Directors is authorized, from time to time, to issue the shares and designate their voting, conversion and other rights, including rights superior, or preferential, to rights of already outstanding shares, all without stockholder consent. No preferred shares are outstanding, and we currently do not intend to issue any shares of preferred stock. Any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future could be given voting and conversion rights that could dilute the voting power and equity of existing holders of shares of common stock and have preferences over shares of common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. 18 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 