Risk Factors — Risks Relating to China — Outbreaks of communicable diseases in various parts of China and other countries may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.”); and • adverse effects of a downturn in the hospitality industry. The above factors may materially affect the performance of those hotels and the profitability and financial condition of the HLGE group. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer any losses arising from our investment in HLGE. The hospitality business is a regulated business. The operation of hotels in the PRC and Malaysia is subject to various laws and regulations. The withdrawal, suspension or non-renewal of any of the hotels’ licenses, or the imposition of any penalties, as a result of any infringement or non-compliance with any requirement, will have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations of the hotels that the HLGE group operates. Further, any changes in such laws and regulations may also have an impact on the businesses at the hotels and result in higher costs of compliance. In addition, any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or other penalties by the relevant authorities. This could have an adverse impact on the revenues and profits of HLGE group or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the hotels. The HLGE group may be unable to continue as a going concern or raise sufficient funds to repay its debt obligations to us. The HLGE group has recorded pre-tax losses for the last five consecutive fiscal years starting from 2009 to 2013. For fiscal year 2014, the HLGE group recorded a profit mainly due to the acquisition by its wholly-owned subsidiary of the remaining 55% equity interest in Augustland Hotel Sdn Bhd, which owned Copthorne Hotel Cameron Highlands. HLGE’s average daily market capitalization has fallen below the minimum threshold of S$40 million resulting in it being placed on the Watch-list of the Singapore Stock Exchange (“Watch-list”) on June 4, 2014, for failing to comply with the minimum criteria for continued listing. In addition, HLGE group owes debt obligations to repay us S$68 million under a loan agreement. The original loan amount of S$93 million was granted to HLGE by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Venture Lewis Limited (“Venture Lewis”) in February 2009 to refinance the outstanding zero coupon unsecured non-convertible bonds previously issued by HLGE and which matured on July 3, 2009. The current outstanding loan amount of S$68 million has been extended six times by us since 2010. 21 Table of Contents These factors have made it difficult for the HLGE group to obtaining financing from financial institutions or to repay its debt obligations to us. In view of these difficulties, we extended the S$68 million loan to HLGE for another year from July 2015 to July 2016 to provide financial support, which is essential to ensure HLGE group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The HLGE group will likely require additional funds for its core businesses and to invest in future growth opportunities. There is no assurance that the HLGE group would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to finance its growth plans or to pay the outstanding debt owing to us either through additional disposals of their assets or potential merger and acquisition opportunities to grow its earnings base. Accordingly, the HLGE group may, depending on the cash flow requirements and financial condition, need to raise additional funds by issuing equity or a combination of equity and debt or by entering into strategic relationships or through other arrangements. Any additional equity financing by HLGE may dilute our equity interests in HLGE. Any debt financing may contain restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, future capital raising and other financial and operational matters. Failure to obtain sufficient funds to finance its growth plans or to repay outstanding debt to us will adversely affect the HLGE group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group’s ability to continue as a going concern that in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment in the HLGE group. The HLGE group may be unable to remain listed. The HLGE group has recorded pre-tax losses for the last five consecutive fiscal years, from 2009 to 2013. For fiscal year 2014, the HLGE group recorded a profit mainly due to the acquisition by its wholly-owned subsidiary of the remaining 55% equity interest in Augustland Hotel Sdn Bhd, which owned Copthorne Hotel Cameron Highlands. HLGE group’s average daily market capitalization has fallen below the minimum threshold of S$40 million resulting in it being placed on the Watch-list of the Singapore Stock Exchange (“Watch-list”) on June 4, 2014, for failing to comply with the minimum criteria for continued listing. The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Stock Exchange have introduced a minimum trading price (“MTP”) of S$0.20 for issuers listed on the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange, which took effect from March 2, 2015 as a continuing listing requirement. Issuers will be first assessed for compliance with the MTP on March 1, 2016 and those who fail to comply with the MTP at the first review date or any of the subsequent quarterly reviews will be placed on the Watch-list. On March 2, 2015, HLGE announced that as its shares have been trading below the MTP for the past six months prior to March 2, 2015, it proposed to undertake a share consolidation of every ten existing issued ordinary shares in the share capital of HLGE into one consolidated share subject to shareholders’ approval and the Singapore Stock Exchange. On March 9, 2015, HLGE announced that it had received in-principle approval from the Singapore Stock Exchange for the proposed share consolidation, which is subject to shareholders’ approval at an extraordinary general meeting. In the event that HLGE is unable to meet the requirements for continued listing, it may be removed from the official list of the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange. The delisting of HLGE’s ordinary shares could make it more difficult for HLGE to raise capital and obtain financing. The resulting lack of liquidity in HLGE’s ordinary shares could also affect our ability to dispose of our shareholding in HLGE. Each of these events could have a material adverse effect on HLGE’s business, financial condition and operating results and its ability to continue as a going concern and its ability to pay our debt, that in turn could have a material adverse effect on our investment in the HLGE group. 