Item 1A. Risk Factors We rely on our partners for product availability and competitive products to sell, and we also compete with many of our partners. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers and publishers and indirectly through distributors, and the loss of a significant partner relationship could cause a disruption in the availability of products to us. Many of our manufacturer and publisher partners are also our competitors, as many sell directly to business customers, particularly larger corporate customers. There is no assurance that, as manufacturers and publishers continue to sell both through the reseller channel and directly to end users, they will not limit or curtail the availability of their product to resellers like us. In addition, the manner in which publishers distribute software is changing, and many publishers now offer their programs as cloud, hosted or SaaS solutions. These changes in distribution may intensify competition and increase the volume of software made available directly to end users through these competitive programs. Any significant increase in such sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our partners for marketing funds and purchasing incentives. Certain manufacturers, publishers and distributors provide us with substantial incentives in the form of rebates, marketing funds, purchasing incentives, early payment discounts, referral fees and price protections. Partner funding is used to offset, among other things, inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we do not meet the goals of these programs or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by manufacturers and publishers. We have experienced adverse program changes recently, and we anticipate that in the future the incentives that many partners make available to us may either be reduced or that the requirements for earning the available amounts will change. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the programs of publishers or manufacturers, including the elimination of, or significant reductions in, funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, particularly related to incentive programs with our largest partners, HP and Microsoft, the changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will continue to receive such incentives. 11 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. Changes in the IT industry and/or rapid changes in technology may reduce demand for the IT hardware, software and services we sell or change who makes purchasing decisions for IT hardware, software and services. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry innovation and the introduction of new products. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and changing delivery channels and models, which can decrease demand for current products and services and can disrupt purchasing patterns. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes, we may experience lower sales and, with respect to hardware, we may have to record write-downs of obsolete inventory. In addition, in order to satisfy client demand, protect ourselves against product shortages, obtain greater purchasing discounts and react to changes in original equipment manufacturers’ terms and conditions, we may decide to carry inventory products that may have limited or no return privileges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to inventory obsolescence on these products. Additionally, if purchasing power within our clients shifts from centralized procurement functions to business units or individual end users and we are unable to react timely to any such changes, these shifts in purchasing power could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The cloud and “as a service” models are disrupting the IT market and introducing new products, services and competitors to the market. In many cases, these new distribution models allow enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software with less complexity and lower initial set-up, operational and licensing costs, increasing competition for us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt to, or compete effectively with, current or future distribution channels or competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in our IT systems and voice and data networks, including the integration and upgrade of our IT systems, could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to our clients. Our ability to provide that level of service is largely dependent on the ease of use, accuracy, quality and utilization of our IT systems, which affects our ability to manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems, and the reliability of our voice and data networks and managed services offerings. In 2013, we completed the integration and conversion of our IT systems in North America and EMEA, and we are in the process of integrating and converting IT systems in our APAC business segment. There can be no assurances that these integration and conversion projects will yield the anticipated efficiency benefits and will not cause disruptions in our business, and any such disruption or failure to realize the benefits of these projects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If current technology is determined to have a shorter useful life or the value of the current system is impaired, we could incur additional depreciation expense and/or impairment charges. A substantial interruption in our IT systems or in our voice and data networks, however caused, could occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The IT hardware, software and services industry is intensely competitive, and actions of our competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business. Competition in the industry is based on price, product availability, speed of delivery, credit availability, quality and breadth of product lines, and, increasingly, on the ability to provide services and tailor specific solutions to client needs. In addition to the manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, we compete with a large number and wide variety of providers and resellers of IT hardware, software and services. We believe our industry will see further consolidation as product resellers and direct marketers combine operations or acquire or merge with other resellers, service providers and direct marketers to increase efficiency, service capabilities and market share. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their product and service offerings. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. Generally, pricing is very aggressive in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher net sales, cost reductions, greater sales of services, which are typically at higher gross margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins or inventory impairment charges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our competitors in each of our operating segments have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to their customers and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors have higher margins and/or lower operating cost structures, allowing them to price more aggressively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our commercial and public sector contracts could result in, among other things, damages, fines or other liabilities. Sales to commercial clients are based on stated contractual terms, the terms and conditions on our website or terms contained in purchase orders on a transaction by transaction basis. Sales to public sector clients are derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental departments and agencies, as well as to educational institutions, through open market sales and various contracts and programs. Noncompliance with contract terms, particularly in the highly regulated public sector business, or with government procurement regulations could result in fines or penalties against us or termination of contracts, and, in the public sector, could also result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability. With respect to our public sector business, the government’s remedies may include suspension or debarment. In addition, almost all of our contracts have default provisions, and substantially all of our contracts in the public sector are terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency. The effect of any of these possible actions or the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations or practices could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Breaches in the security of our electronic and other confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Privacy, security, and compliance concerns have continued to increase as technology has evolved to facilitate commerce and as cross-border commerce increases. As part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information, including information about teammates and information about partners and clients which may be entitled to protection under a number of regulatory regimes. In the course of normal and customary business practice, we may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business. Moreover, the success of our operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. Any failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our teammates’, partners’ and clients’ confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic conditions, including unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector, may lead our clients to delay or forgo investments in IT hardware, software and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Weak economic conditions generally or any broad-based reduction in IT spending adversely affects our business, operating results and financial condition. A prolonged slowdown in the global economy or similar crisis, or in a particular region or business or industry sector, or tightening of credit markets, could cause our clients to have difficulty accessing capital and credit sources, delay contractual payments, or delay or forgo decisions to upgrade or add to their existing IT environments, license new software or purchase products or services (particularly with respect to discretionary spending for hardware, software and services). Further, the U.S. Government may implement further reductions in program funding, and we are not able, at present, to predict the effect of any such reductions. Such events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The failure of our clients to pay the accounts receivable they owe to us or the loss of significant clients could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from clients. If clients comprising a significant amount of accounts receivable (in number or dollar amount) were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. Economic or industry downturns could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing under our accounts receivable securitization program. We depend on certain personnel. We rely on key management teammates to execute our strategy to grow profitable market share. The loss of one or more of these leaders, or a failure to attract and retain new executives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, service and technical teammates, and we make a significant investment in the training of our sales account executives and services engineers. If we are not able to retain such personnel or to train them quickly enough to meet changing market conditions, we could experience a drop in the overall quality and efficiency of our sales and services teammates, and that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. Our net sales and gross profit have historically varied, making our future operating results less predictable. Our operating results are highly dependent upon our level of gross profit as a percentage of net sales, which fluctuates due to numerous factors, including changes in prices from partners, changes in the amount and timing of partner funding, volumes of purchases, changes in client mix, management of our cash conversion cycle, the relative mix of products and services sold during the period, general competitive conditions, and strategic product and services pricing and purchasing actions. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on anticipated net sales and the anticipated amount and timing of partner funding. Therefore, we may not be able to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected net sales shortfall, and any such inability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The integration and operation of acquired businesses may disrupt our business and create additional expenses, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Integration of an acquired business involves numerous challenges and risks, including assimilation of operations of the acquired business and difficulties in the convergence of IT systems, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, assumption of unknown or unquantifiable liabilities, the potential loss of key teammates and/or clients, difficulties in completing strategic initiatives already underway in the acquired companies, and unfamiliarity with partners and clients of the acquired company, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our integration of acquired businesses typically assumes certain synergies and other benefits. We cannot assure that these risks or other unforeseen factors will not offset the intended benefits of the acquisitions, in whole or in part. There are risks associated with our international operations that are different than the risks associated with our operations in the United States, and our exposure to the risks of a global market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations. We have operation centers in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the U.S., and the United Kingdom, as well as sales offices throughout EMEA and APAC. In the regions in which we do not currently have a physical presence, we serve our clients through strategic relationships. In implementing our international strategy, we may face barriers to entry and competition from local companies and other companies that already have established global businesses, as well as the risks generally associated with conducting business internationally. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as: • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation or taxation; • currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in import/export laws, regulations and customs and duties; • trade restrictions; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • taxes and other restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • extended payment terms; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. In addition, changes in policies and/or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other changes, higher taxation, tariffs or similar protectionist laws, currency conversion limitations or the nationalization of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, including intercompany transactions outside the U.S., and we currently conduct limited hedging activities. In addition, some currencies are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit the ability to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict with precision the effect of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operating results, and significant rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign operations to U.S. dollars. Changes in, interpretations of, or enforcement trends related to, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to pay additional tax assessments. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • changes in pre-tax income in various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • higher corporate tax rates and the availability of deductions or credits in the U.S. and elsewhere; • changes in tax laws, regulations, and/or interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; • tax effects related to purchase accounting for acquisitions; and • resolutions of issues arising from tax examinations and any related interest or penalties. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and complex calculations in situations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liabilities is always subject to review or examination by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of such review or examination could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. The results from various tax examinations and audits may differ from the liabilities recorded in our financial statements and may adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, and we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, unpatented proprietary know-how, and patents, as well as confidentiality, invention assignment, non-solicitation and non-competition agreements. There can be no assurance that these measures will afford us sufficient protection of our intellectual property, and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships, results of operations, financial condition and future growth prospects. In addition, our registered trademarks and trade names are subject to challenge by third parties. This may affect our ability to continue using those marks and names. Likewise, many businesses are actively investing in, developing and seeking protection for intellectual property in the areas of search, indexing, e-commerce and other Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of on-line business models and methods, all of which are in addition to traditional research and development efforts for IT products and application software, and non-practicing entities continue to invest in acquiring patent portfolios for the purpose of turning the portfolios into income-generating assets, whether through licensing campaigns or litigation. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of and the right to use these technologies are likely to arise in the future, and, from time to time, parties do assert various infringement claims against us, either because of our practices or because we resell allegedly infringing hardware or software, in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing inquiries, lawsuits and other communications and demands. If there is a determination that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be forced to stop selling infringing products or providing infringing services, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available, or be prevented from using the rights, which could force us to change our business practices or hardware, software or services offerings in the future. Additionally, as we increase the types of services provided under the Insight brand, there is a greater likelihood that we will encounter challenges to our trade names, trademarks and service marks. We may not be able to use our principal mark without modification in all geographies for all of our offerings, and these challenges may come from either governmental agencies or other market participants. These types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. 