Item 1A. Risk FactorsAn investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our Company and our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our Common Stock could decline.Risks Related to our BusinessOur dual fuel conversion business has lost money in twelve of the past thirteen consecutive fiscal quarters and will need additional working capital if we do not obtain sustained profitability. If additional capital is not received, it may force us to adjust operations accordingly. Since the July 2009 acquisition of American Power Group's dual fuel conversion operations, we have invested over $9.1 million to enhance our dual fuel products and support dual fuel sales and marketing initiatives intended to promote American Power Group's dual fuel conversion technology and establish broader market presence worldwide. Despite these efforts, American Power Group's business has incurred significant operating losses and experienced negative cash flow from operations. Our continued existence is dependent on our ability to generate positive operating cash flow, achieve profitability on a sustained basis and generate improved performance. If American Power Group is unable to achieve sustained profitability, our ability to maintain our current level of operations could be materially and adversely affected. There is no guarantee we will be able to achieve profitability.We may require additional funding to grow our business, which funding may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we do not obtain funding when we need it, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, if we have to sell securities in order to obtain financing, the rights of our current holders may be adversely affected.Substantial expenditures will be required to enable us to obtain the necessary additional vehicular engine family approvals from the EPA to accelerate our ability to sell our vehicular dual fuel solution in the United States. In addition, we may need additional capital to continue operations. There can be no assurance that we will generate revenues from operations or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to generate such operating revenues or obtain such capital, if needed, would have an adverse impact on our financial position, and results of operations and our ability to continue as a going concern. We may also seek funding for the manufacturing and marketing of our products through strategic partnerships and other arrangements with corporate partners. There can be no assurance that such collaborative arrangements or additional funds will be available when needed, or on terms acceptable to us if at all. Operating and capital requirements during the next fiscal year and thereafter will vary based on a number of factors, including the level of sales and marketing activities for services and products. There can be no assurance that additional private or public finances, including debt or equity financing, will be available as needed, or, if available, on terms favorable to us. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders and such additional equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our existing Common Stock. Improvement in our business depends on our ability to increase demand for our products and services.We must substantially increase revenues from our American Power Group's business. Factors that could limit demand for our products and services include potential changes in the regulatory environment. If, for example, the EPA withdraws support for our domestic vehicular dual fuel testing initiative, further development of the domestic market for our vehicular products could be materially delayed. Other adverse events or economic or other conditions affecting markets for our products and services, potential delays in product development, product and service flaws, changes in technology and the availability of competitive products and services could also delay or limit demand for our products and services. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful, that all of our products will prove to meet the anticipated levels of approval or effectiveness, or that we will be able to obtain and sustain customers as well as distribution approval.We are exposed to risks related to technological obsolescence and competition.We operate in competitive and evolving markets locally, nationally and globally. These markets are subject to rapid technological change and changes in demand. In seeking market acceptance, we will encounter competition from many sources, including other well-established and larger dominant original equipment providers such as CAT, Cummings, Detroit Diesel, Volvo and Mercedes. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources as well as substantially greater experience in conducting testing, manufacturing and marketing of products than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their 7products and services. In addition, our competitors might succeed in developing or purchasing technologies and products that are more effective than those that we are developing or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Competition could increase if new companies enter the markets in which we operate or our existing competitors expand their service lines.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately.Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on patents, as well as on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or protect that proprietary information. Companies in our industry often own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we gain increasing market share, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against our licensed dual fuel technology could grow. Although the licensor is responsible for defending all claims against the licensed dual fuel technology, it may not have the resources to defend such claims adequately. Such claims, whether having merit or otherwise, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. No assurance can be given that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid or enforceable, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business.Because our dual fuel technology is licensed from a third party, if we should default on the payment of royalties or other material terms of that license, the license can be terminated. Such termination would have a material adverse effect on our business and on our results of operations.In addition, many of our distribution agreements require us to indemnify the partner for third-party intellectual property infringement claims and may require that we pay the damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims and the licensor was unable to adequately indemnify us. If litigation is successfully brought by a third party against us and/or our licensor in respect of intellectual property, we may be required to cease distributing or marketing certain products or obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at material cost, redesign affected products in such a way as to avoid infringing intellectual property rights, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we or the licensor may be unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could also adversely affect our competitive position. There is uncertainty relating to our ability to enforce our rights under the content partner agreements.Several of our exclusive distribution agreements are with foreign entities and are governed by the laws of foreign jurisdictions. If a partner breaches such agreement, then we may incur the additional costs of determining our rights and obligations under the agreement, under applicable foreign laws, and enforcing the agreement in a foreign jurisdiction. In addition, some of the exclusive distribution agreements contain arbitration provisions that govern disputes under the agreements and there is uncertainty with respect to the enforceability of such arbitration provisions under the laws of related foreign jurisdictions. If a dispute were to arise under an exclusive distribution agreement and the related arbitration provision was not effective, then we would be exposed to the additional costs of settling the dispute through traditional legal avenues rather than through an arbitration process.The creditworthiness of our distributors is an ongoing concern.We may not always be able to collect all funds owed to us by our distributors. Some distributors may experience financial difficulties which may adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable. We regularly review the collectability and creditworthiness of our distributors to determine an appropriate allowance for credit to such distributors. If our uncollectible accounts exceed that amount for which we have planned, this would adversely impact our operating results. We intend to minimize this concern with international customers by selling most of our products by way of advanced deposits and letters of credit or similar payment methods. We depend on the manufacture and installation capabilities of third parties.An important element of our strategy for the marketing and release of our products is to enter into various arrangements with distribution and installation entities. The success and commercialization of our dual fuel products will be dependent, in part, upon our ability to enter into such arrangements and upon the ability of these third parties to perform their responsibilities. Although we believe that parties to any such arrangements would have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that any such arrangements will be available on terms acceptable to us, if any at all, and that such parties will perform their obligations as expected, or that any revenue will be derived from such arrangements. If we are not able to enter into such arrangements, we could encounter delays in introducing our products into the market. 8We plan to assemble our dual fuel installation kits in-house after receiving components from outside vendors and have the kits installed by independent certified installers. Therefore, we may be dependent on contract manufacturers for the production of certain critical components for products as well as their installation. In the event that we are unable to obtain or retain the necessary components and services on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to commercialize and market our products as planned. There can be no assurance that we will be able to i) obtain adequate supplies of our products in a timely fashion at acceptable quality and prices, ii) enter into arrangements for the manufacture of our products with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with our requirements, or iii) that such manufacturers will be able to adequately supply us with our product needs. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of certain critical components may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis.Our success depends on the retention of our senior management and other key personnel. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management. Our senior management consists of only two officers, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who has held that position for six years, and our Chief Financial Officer, who has held that position for 14 years. The loss of either member of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain a key man insurance policy covering any or senior management or any other key employees. In addition, in the event that either our President or Chief Financial Officer is terminated by us without cause, the officer will be entitled to receive severance payments equal to twelve months' salary and certain benefits. In the event we are required to make these severance payments to our officers, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the fiscal period in which such payments are made.In addition, to increase revenues, we will be required to hire sales and marketing officers and to develop a larger and more effective sales force. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire, motivate and retain skilled marketing and sales personnel.Seasonal factors may affect our quarterly operating results.Seasonality may cause our total revenues to fluctuate. Our American Power Group subsidiary may experience some seasonality in the Hurricane Belt located in the Southeastern U.S., where critical care installations are usually not scheduled during the July-October time frame.Inflation and changing prices may hurt our business.We are generally exposed to the effects of inflation and changing prices. Because our dual fuel conversion technology replaces a certain percentage of diesel fuel with natural gas, we would be impacted by any material change in the net fuel savings between the two fuels (such as a decrease in diesel fuel prices and an increase in natural gas prices).If we acquire other companies or businesses we will be subject to risks that could hurt our business.A part of our business strategy is based on future acquisitions or significant investments in businesses that offer complementary products and services. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons. Any acquisitions completed by our company may be made at a premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired companies and competition may cause us to pay more for an acquired business than its long-term fair market value. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to integrate any future acquired businesses, at all or without significant distraction of management into our ongoing business. In order to finance acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to issue shares of our capital stock to the sellers of the acquired businesses and/or to seek additional funds through public or private financings. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to us and, in the case of an equity financing or the use of our stock to pay for an acquisition, may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. As we grow, we are subject to growth related risks.We are subject to growth-related risks, including capacity constraints and pressure on our internal systems and personnel. In order to manage current operations and any future growth effectively, we will need to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and to hire, train, motivate, manage and retain employees. We may be unable to manage such growth effectively. Our management, personnel or systems may be inadequate to support our operations, and we may be unable to achieve the increased levels of revenue commensurate with the increased levels of operating expenses associated with this growth. Any such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and prospects. In addition, the cost of opening new facilities and the hiring of new personnel for those facilities could significantly decrease our profitability, if the new facilities do not generate sufficient additional revenue.We incur substantial costs to operate as a public reporting company. 9We incur substantial legal, financial, accounting and other costs and expenses to operate as a public reporting company. We believe that these costs are a disproportionately larger percentage of our revenues than they are for many larger companies, and they contribute significantly to our operating losses. In addition, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission impose significant requirements on public companies, including ongoing disclosure obligations and mandatory corporate governance practices. Our limited senior management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to ensure ongoing compliance with these requirements. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTC Markets Group's OTCQB tier. OTC Markets Group imposes no specific quotation requirements for its OTCQB tier other than that issuers must be current in their reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we are successful in listing our stock for trading on a national securities exchange or having our stock quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, we will be subject to additional disclosure and governance obligations. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet all of the public company requirements to which we are subject on a timely basis, or at all, or that our compliance costs will not continue to be material.Risks Related to the Securities Market and our Common StockOur stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders.Our Common Stock is thinly traded and an active public market for our stock may not develop. Consequently, the market price of our Common Stock may be highly volatile. Additionally, the market price of our Common Stock could fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: •we are now traded on the OCT Market's Group's OTCQB;•changes in market valuations of similar companies; •announcements by us or by our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•regulatory developments; •additions or departures of senior management and other key personnel; •deviations in our results of operations from the estimates of securities analysts; and •future issuances of our Common Stock or other securities. We have options, warrants and Convertible Preferred Stock currently outstanding. Their exercise and/or conversion will cause dilution to existing and new shareholders.As of September 30, 2012, we had options and warrants outstanding to purchase 26,831,223 additional shares of Common Stock. These reserved shares relate to the following: 4,074,000 shares for issuance upon exercise of awards granted under our 1993 Stock Option Plan, 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan and 2005 Stock Option Plan, and 22,757,223 shares for issuance upon exercise of other stock options and stock purchase warrants. In addition, at that date ,we had Convertible Preferred Stock which is convertible into 18,982,500 shares of Common StockThe exercise of these options and warrants and the conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock will cause additional shares of Common Stock to be issued, resulting in dilution to investors and our existing stockholders. As of September 30, 2012, approximately 42 million shares of our common stock were eligible for sale in the public market exclusive of the options, warrants and Convertible Preferred Stock noted above.Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our shares, which will limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters.Our directors, executive officers and other principal stockholders owned approximately 34 percent of our outstanding Common Stock on an as-converted basis as of September 30, 2012. Accordingly, these stockholders could have a significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and also could prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership.We have never paid dividends on our Common Stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our Common Stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our Common Stock will be the shareholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. The terms of the 10% Convertible Preferred Stock restrict our ability to pay dividends on our Common Stock if the dividends due on the 10% Convertible Preferred Stock are unpaid.10Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could prevent, deter or delay a change in control of our company.Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws could have the effect, either alone or in combination with each other, of preventing, deterring or delaying a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot Applicable.