Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: Increased competition could hurt our business and financial results. We face competition in our markets from a number of large and small companies, some of which have greater financial, research and development, production and other resources than we do. Our competitive position is based principally on performance, quality, customer support, service, breadth of product line, manufacturing or packaging technology and the selling prices of our products. Our competitors might be expected to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect to do the same to maintain our current competitive position and market share. The loss of governmental permits and approvals would materially harm some of our businesses. Pursuant to applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, we are required to obtain and maintain certain governmental permits and approvals, including an EPA registration for our ethylene oxide sterilant product. We maintain an EPA registration of ethylene oxide as a medical device sterilant and fumicide. We are in the process of re-registering this product in accordance with FIFRA. The EPA may not allow re-registration of ethylene oxide for the uses mentioned above. The failure of the EPA to allow re-registration of ethylene oxide would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The Channahon, Illinois facility manufactures a calcium carbonate line of pharmaceutical ingredients. This facility is registered with the FDA as a drug manufacturing facility. These products must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations as interpreted and enforced by the FDA. Modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing facilities or procedures of our pharmaceutical products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Our Channahon, Illinois facility, as well as those of any third-party cGMP manufacturers that we may use, are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the results of these inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with the FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 7 Permits and approvals may be subject to revocation, modification or denial under certain circumstances. Our operations or activities (including the status of compliance by the prior owner of the Verona, Missouri facility under Superfund remediation) could result in administrative or private actions, revocation of required permits or licenses, or fines, penalties or damages, which could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we can not predict the extent to which any legislation or regulation may affect the market for our products or our cost of doing business. Raw material shortages or price increases could adversely affect our business and financial results. The principal raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products can be subject to price fluctuations. While the selling prices of our products tend to increase or decrease over time with the cost of raw materials, these changes may not occur simultaneously or to the same degree. At times, we may be unable to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers. Such increases in the price of raw materials, if not offset by product price increases, or substitute raw materials, would have an adverse impact on our profitability. We believe we have reliable sources of supply for our raw materials under normal market conditions. We cannot, however, predict the likelihood or impact of any future raw material shortages. Any shortages could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our financial success depends in part on the reliability and sufficiency of our manufacturing facilities. Our revenues depend on the effective operation of our manufacturing, packaging, and processing facilities. The operation of our facilities involves risks, including the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, power outages, the improper installation or operation of equipment, explosions, fires, natural disasters, failure to achieve or maintain safety or quality standards, work stoppages, supply or logistical outages, and the need to comply with environmental and other directives of governmental agencies. The occurrence of material operational problems, including, but not limited to, the above events, could adversely affect our profitability during the period of such operational difficulties. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and financial results. We hold 17 patents in the United States and overseas. Third parties could seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents. Moreover, there could be successful claims against us alleging that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to protect all of our intellectual property rights, or if we are found to be infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there could be an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our competitive position also depends on our use of unpatented trade secrets. Competitors could independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, which could hurt our business and financial results. We face risks associated with our sales to customers and manufacturing operations outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 25% of our net sales consisted of sales outside the United States, predominately to Europe, Japan and China. In addition, we conduct a portion of our manufacturing outside the United States. International sales are subject to inherent risks. The majority of our foreign sales occur through our foreign sales subsidiaries and the remainder of our foreign sales result from exports to foreign distributors, resellers and customers. Our foreign sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; the impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies outside the United States; export duties and quotas; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; certification requirements; environmental regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; political and economic instability; and preference for locally produced products. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase or maintain our international sales. 8 We may, from time to time, experience problems in our labor relations. In North America, approximately 55 employees, or 23% of our North American workforce, as of December 31, 2007, are represented by a union under a single collective bargaining agreement. This agreement expires in 2012. In Europe, approximately 73 employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. This agreement expires in 2010. We believe that our present labor relations with all of our unionized employees are satisfactory, however, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Similarly, if our relations with the unionized portion of our workforce do not remain positive, such employees could initiate a strike, work stoppage or slowdown in the future. In the event of such an action, we may not be able to adequately meet the needs of our customers using our remaining workforce and our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our international operations subject us to currency translation risk and currency transaction risk which could cause our results to fluctuate from period to period. The financial condition and results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in Euros and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates between these currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. In the past year, as a result of the strength of the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar, our operating results in U.S. dollars were positively affected upon translation. The positive impact of the strengthening Euro may not continue in the future and may even reverse if the Euro declines in value compared to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different than the functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transactions and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates could impact our business and financial results. Our success depends in large part on our key personnel. Our operations significantly depend on the continued efforts of our senior executives. The loss of the services of certain executives for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Litigation could be costly and can adversely affect our business and financial results. We, like all companies involved in the food and pharmaceutical industries, are subject to potential claims for product liability relating to our products. Such claims, irrespective of their outcomes or merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of management time and attention. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 