ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Decreases in the demand for propane because of warmer-than-normal heating season weather or poor weather may adversely affect our results of operations. Because many of our customers rely on propane as a heating fuel, our results of operations are adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane for both heating and agricultural purposes. Accordingly, the volume of propane sold is at its highest during the five-month peak heating season of November through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter weather. For example, historically approximately 55% to 60% of our annual retail propane volumes are sold during these months. There can be no assurance that normal winter weather in our service territories will occur in the future. The agricultural demand for propane is also affected by weather, as dry or warm weather during the harvest season may reduce the demand for propane. Our ACE operations experience higher volumes in the spring and summer, mainly due to the grilling season. Sustained periods of poor weather can negatively affect our ACE revenues. Poor weather may also cause a reduction in the purchase and use of grills and other propane-filled appliances which could reduce the demand for our portable propane tank exchange services. 8 Table of Contents Our profitability is subject to propane pricing and inventory risk. The retail propane business is a “margin-based” business in which gross profits are dependent upon the excess of the sales price over the propane supply costs. Propane is a commodity, and, as such, its unit price is subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over these market conditions. Consequently, the unit price of the propane that we and other marketers purchase can change rapidly over a short period of time. Most of our propane product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major storage points such as Mont Belvieu, Texas or Conway, Kansas. Because our profitability is sensitive to changes in wholesale propane supply costs, it will be adversely affected if we cannot pass on increases in the cost of propane to our customers. Due to competitive pricing in the industry, we may not be able to pass on product cost increases to our customers when product costs rise rapidly, or when our competitors do not raise their product prices. Finally, market volatility may cause us to sell inventory at less than the price we purchased it, which could adversely affect our operating results. High propane costs can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our product. Prices for propane are subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. During periods of high propane costs such as those experienced in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, our prices generally increase. High prices can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our product. Supplier defaults may have a negative effect on our operating results. When the Company enters into fixed price sales contracts with customers, it also enters into fixed price purchase contracts with suppliers. Depending on changes in the market prices of products compared to the prices secured in our contracts with suppliers of propane, a default of one or more of our suppliers under such contracts could cause us to purchase propane at higher prices which would have a negative impact on our operating results. Changes in commodity market prices may have a negative effect on our liquidity. Depending on the terms of our contracts with suppliers, a change in the market price of propane could create a margin payment obligation by the Company and expose us to an increased liquidity risk. 9 Table of Contents Our operations may be adversely affected by competition from other energy sources. Propane competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly for equivalent energy value. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that the development of alternative energy sources might have on our operations. We compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and natural gas. Electricity is a major competitor of propane, but propane generally enjoys a competitive price advantage over electricity for space heating, water heating and cooking. Fuel oil is also a major competitor of propane and is generally less expensive than propane. Furnaces and appliances that burn propane will not operate on fuel oil and vice versa, however, so a conversion from one fuel to the other requires the installation of new equipment. Our customers generally have an incentive to switch to fuel oil only if fuel oil becomes significantly less expensive than propane. Except for certain industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because natural gas is generally a less expensive source of energy than propane. The gradual expansion of the nation’s natural gas distribution systems has resulted in the availability of natural gas in some areas that previously depended upon propane. Our ability to increase revenues is adversely affected by the maturity of the retail propane industry. The retail propane industry is mature, with only modest growth in total demand for the product foreseen. Given this limited growth, we expect that year-to-year industry volumes will be principally affected by weather patterns. Therefore, our ability to grow within the industry is dependent on our ability to acquire other retail distributors and to achieve internal growth, which includes expansion of our ACE and Strategic Accounts programs, as well as the success of our marketing programs designed to attract and retain customers. Any failure to retain and grow our customer base would have an adverse effect on our results. Our ability to grow will be adversely affected if we are not successful in making acquisitions or in integrating the acquisitions we have made. We have historically expanded our propane business through acquisitions. We regularly consider and evaluate opportunities for growth through the acquisition of local, regional and national propane distributors. We may choose to finance future acquisitions with debt, equity, cash or a combination of the three. We can give no assurances that we will find attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such candidates on economically acceptable terms, that any acquisitions will not be dilutive to earnings and distributions or that any additional debt incurred to finance an acquisition will not affect our ability to make distributions. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, such acquisitions involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the assumption of material liabilities, the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations, difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees and difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations. The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and otherwise providing combustible liquids such as propane for use by consumers. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that we are adequately insured for claims in excess of our self-insurance; however, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages and penalties, if any, may not be covered by insurance. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. We may be unable to respond effectively to competition, which may adversely affect our operating results. We may be unable to timely respond to changes within the propane sectors that may result from regulatory initiatives to further increase competition within our industry. Such regulatory initiatives may create opportunities for additional competitors to enter our markets, and, as a result, we may be unable to maintain our revenues or continue to pursue our current business strategy. Our net income will decrease if we are required to incur additional costs to comply with new governmental safety, health, transportation and environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local safety, health, transportation and environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, distribution and transportation of propane. We have implemented safety and environmental programs and policies designed to avoid potential liability and costs under applicable laws. It is possible, however, that we will incur increased costs as a result of complying with new safety, health, transportation and environmental regulations and that such costs will reduce our net income. It is also possible that material environmental liabilities will be incurred, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. The IRS could treat us as a corporation for tax purposes or changes in law could subject us to entity-level taxation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to holders of common units. The availability to a common unitholder of the federal income tax benefits of an investment in the common units depends, in large part, on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. No ruling from the IRS as to this status has been or is expected to be requested. If we were classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would be required to pay tax on our income at corporate tax rates (currently a 35% federal rate), and distributions received by the common unitholders would generally be taxed a second time as corporate distributions. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to the common unitholders would be substantially reduced. Treatment of us as a corporation would cause a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the common unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. 11 Table of Contents The law could be changed so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise to be subject to entity-level taxation. If we become subject to widespread entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it could substantially reduce distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, certain provisions of our partnership agreement will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels to reflect the impact of this law on us. Any such reductions could increase our general partner’s percentage of cash distributions and decrease our limited partners’ percentage of cash distributions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 