Risk Factors Risks relating to our shares and share ownership Our controlling shareholder’s interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. Our controlling shareholder, Hong Leong Asia Ltd., or Hong Leong Asia, indirectly owns 12,998,040, or 34.9%, of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, as well as a special share that entitles it to elect a majority of our directors. Hong Leong Asia controls us through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hong Leong (China) Limited, or Hong Leong China, and through HL Technology Systems Pte Ltd, or HL Technology, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hong Leong China. HL Technology owns approximately 21.0% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock and has since August 2002 been the registered holder of the special share. Hong Leong Asia also owns, through another wholly-owned subsidiary, Well Summit Investments Limited, approximately 13.9% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Hong Leong Asia is a member of the Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte. Ltd. or Hong Leong Investment group of companies. Prior to August 2002, we were controlled by Diesel Machinery (BVI) Limited, or Diesel Machinery, which, until its dissolution, was a holding company controlled by Hong Leong China and was the prior owner of the special share. Through HL Technology’s stock ownership and the rights accorded to the Special Share under our Bye-laws and various agreements among shareholders, Hong Leong Asia is able to effectively approve and effect most corporate transactions. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Shareholders Agreement.” In addition, our shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights. There can be no assurance that Hong Leong Asia’s actions will be in the best interests of our other shareholders. See also “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” We may experience a change of control as a result of sale or disposal of shares of our Common Stock by our controlling shareholders. As described above, HL Technology, a subsidiary of Hong Leong Asia, owns 7,831,169 shares of our Common Stock, as well as the special share. If HL Technology reduces its shareholding to less than 7,290,000 shares of our Common Stock, our Bye-Laws provide that the special share held by HL Technology will cease to carry any rights, and Hong Leong Asia may as a result cease to have control over us. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — The Special Share.” If HL Technology sells or disposes of all of the shares of our Common Stock, we cannot determine what control arrangements will arise as a result of such sale or disposal (including changes in our management arising therefrom), or assess what effect those control arrangements may have, if any, on our financial condition, results of operations, business, prospects or share price. In addition, certain of our financing arrangements have covenants requiring Hong Leong Asia to retain ownership of the special share and that we remain a principal subsidiary (as defined in such arrangements) of Hong Leong Asia. A breach of that covenant may require us to pay all outstanding amounts under those financing arrangements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay such amounts or obtain alternate financing. The market price for our Common Stock may be volatile. There continues to be volatility in the market price for our Common Stock. The market price could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • our interim operating results; • the public’s reaction to our press releases and announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us, our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • operating and stock price performance of our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • political, economic, and social conditions in China; • any negative perceptions about corporate governance or accounting practices at listed companies with significant operations in China; • changes in general economic conditions, especially the weak and uncertain recovery in the global economy caused by various factors, including the resurgence of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and renewed concerns over a possible breakup of the Eurozone, continued weakness in the economy of the Eurozone, debt and fiscal challenges in the United States and weaker than expected economic rebound in China; • future sales of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur; or • the announcement by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition. 8 Table of Contents As a result of the global financial crisis in the third quarter of 2008, global stock markets experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. According to the World Bank’s latest Global Economic Prospects issued on January 15, 2013, the global financial crisis continues four years after it started although the worst appears to be over. According to the World Bank, the world economy continued to struggle as economic activity in the high income countries was dampened by the Eurozone crisis as well as uncertainty resulting from the fiscal challenges in the U.S. While growth rates in developing countries have fallen, they were still expanding faster than the high income countries. Slow growth is characterizing the high income regions of the world namely, Europe, the United States and Japan, and the World Bank has forecast growth in these advanced economies to remain at 1.3% in 2013. Growth for the global economy is expected to remain broadly unchanged at 2.4% before gradually strengthening in 2014 and 2015. While there are signs that growth is picking up in developing countries, the recovery ahead remains uncertain with bouts of market volatility expected. If the situation in Europe deteriorates or if the United States is unable to promptly address its debt and fiscal problems, which would impact on the global economy, China’s export growth would be adversely affected which would have a negative effect on its economy. The World Bank has forecast China’s economy to expand in 2013 by 8.4%, whereas the Chinese government is maintaining a growth target of 7.5% as its new leadership attempts to rebalance its economy from investment and exports to increased domestic consumption. All of these factors working together may result in market fluctuations which may materially adversely affect our stock price. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to US Holders. A non-United States corporation is considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the total value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, the total value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our shares. We believe that our shares should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year that ended on December 31, 2012. However, there is no guarantee that the United States Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position or that our shares will not be treated as stock of a PFIC for any future taxable year. Our PFIC status will be affected by, among other things, the market value of our shares and the assets and operations of our company and subsidiaries. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US Holder (defined below) holds our shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the US Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — PFIC Rules.” Risks relating to our company and our business The diesel engine business in China is dependent in large part on the performance of the Chinese and the global economy, as well as Chinese government policy. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected by slowdowns in the Chinese and the global economy, as well as Chinese government policies affecting our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. During periods of economic expansion, the demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases. Conversely, uncertainty about current global economic conditions or adverse changes in the economy could lead to a significant decline in the diesel engine industry which is generally adversely affected by a decline in demand. As a result, the performance of the Chinese economy will likely affect, to a significant degree, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. For example, the various measures taken by the Chinese government from time to time to regulate economic growth and control inflation have in prior periods, significantly weakened demand for trucks in China, and may have a similar effect in the future. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the Chinese economy could also increase costs associated with developing our products, increase the cost and decrease the availability of potential sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from our investments, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. According to the World Bank’s latest Global Economic Prospects issued on January 15, 2013, the global financial crisis continues four years after it started although the worst appears to be over. The global economy remains fragile as high-income countries continue to suffer from volatility and slow growth. Although downside risks to the global economy have diminished, they have not been eliminated. These risks include the deterioration of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, debt and fiscal issues in the United States and the possibility of a sharp slowdown of investment in China as its new leadership attempts to rebalance its economy from investment and exports to increased domestic consumption. The pace of economic growth in China slowed from 10.4% in 2010 to 9.2% in 2011 to 7.8% in 2012 (Source: China’s National Bureau of Statistics). The World Bank has forecast China’s economy to expand in 2013 by 8.4%. On March 5, 2013, at Premier Wen Jiabao’s last annual address to open the National People’s Congress in Beijing, he announced that the growth target for China in 2013 remained at 7.5%, the same level as that set for 2012, in part due to the continuing impact of the global financial crisis and the uncertain recovery of the world economy. Premier Wen also noted that expanding domestic demand would be China’s long-term strategy for economic development and that a proper level of economic growth was required to be maintained in order to change the growth model and restructure the economy. In view of the announced increase in focus on domestic consumption and less on exports and investments, changes to existing economic policies are expected to be implemented by the new leadership. 9 Table of Contents The business and prospects for the diesel engine industry, and thus the business and prospects of our company, may also be adversely affected by Chinese government policy. The overall sales of commercial vehicles between January and November 2009 increased 28% to approximately 3.3 million units, compared to the same period in 2008 (Source: China Association of Automobile Manufacturers). This was partly due to the Chinese government’s stimulus measures to counter the effects of the global financial crisis and maintain economic stability as well as the evolving emission standards for automotive vehicles which contributed to the demand for new vehicles. Commercial vehicle sales in 2010 rose to a new peak of over 4.3 million units, an increase of 30% over 2009, but growth in the Chinese automotive market slowed in 2011, with a year-on-year increase in sales of only 2.45%, the lowest growth in 13 years (Source: China Association of Automobile Manufacturers). The slowdown in the automotive market in 2011 extended into 2012 and continued into the first quarter of 2013 due to a variety of factors, including the phasing out of government incentives for car purchases, the introduction of policies to restrict automotive growth in Beijing and other major cities to curb emissions and ease traffic congestion and a slowdown in China’s economy. In recent years, the policies of the Chinese government have encouraged energy conservation and emissions reduction. China’s 12th Five-Year Plan, which was officially adopted in 2011, targets a 16% and 17% reduction in energy use and carbon dioxide emissions respectively per unit of economic output by 2015. Out of seven strategic investment areas identified under the 12th Five-Year Plan, three relate to energy, namely clean energy, energy conservation and clean energy vehicles. On June 16, 2012, in an effort to strengthen the country’s energy saving and emission reduction efforts, the Chinese government issued the 12th Five-Year Development Plan for the Energy Saving and Environmental Protection Industry (the “Energy Plan”). While the Energy Plan recognized that China’s energy saving and environmental protection industry has grown rapidly and is expected to continue to do so through 2015, it also acknowledged that the scale and strength of the industry are not sufficient to meet the needs of the nation’s economic and social development. Although the Energy Plan formulated a series of policy measures to create a sustainable environment for the the rapid growth of the energy saving and environmental protection industry during the 12th Five-Year Plan period from 2011 to 2015, there is no assurance that these measures will be successful. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not change its policies in the future to further de-emphasize the use of diesel engines, and any such change will adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be adversely affected if we are unable to implement the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement. We own 76.4% of the outstanding shares of Yuchai, and one of our primary sources of cash flow continues to be our share of the dividends, if any, paid by Yuchai and investment earnings thereon. As a result of the agreement reached with Yuchai and its related parties pursuant to the July 2003 Agreement, we discontinued legal and arbitration proceedings initiated by us in May 2003 relating to difficulties with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In furtherance of the terms of the July 2003 Agreement, we, Yuchai and Coomber Investments Limited, or Coomber, entered into the Reorganization Agreement in April 2005, as amended in December 2005 and November 2006, and agreed on a restructuring plan intended to be beneficial to our shareholders. In June 2007, we, along with Yuchai, Coomber and the State Holding Company, entered into the Cooperation Agreement. The Cooperation agreement amends certain terms of the Reorganization Agreement and as so amended, incorporates the terms of the Reorganization Agreement. Pursuant to the amendments to the Reorganization Agreement, the Company has agreed that the restructuring and spin-off of Yuchai will not be effected, and, recognizing the understandings that have been reached between the Company and the State Holding Company to jointly undertake efforts to expand the business of Yuchai, the Company will not seek to recover the anti-dilution fee of US$20 million that was due from Yuchai. For more information on these agreements see “Item 4. Information on the Company — History and Development.” No assurance can be given as to when the business expansion requirements relating to Yuchai as contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement will be fully implemented, or that implementation of the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement will effectively resolve all of the difficulties faced by us with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In addition, the Reorganization Agreement contemplates the continued implementation of our business expansion and diversification plan adopted in February 2005. One of the goals of this business expansion and diversification plan is to reduce our financial dependence on Yuchai. Subsequently, we acquired strategic stakes in TCL and HLGE. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Business Expansion and Diversification Plan.” Nonetheless, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully expand and diversify our business. We may also not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, or secure funding to consummate such acquisitions or successfully integrate such acquired businesses within our operations. Any failure to implement the terms of the Reorganization Agreement and Cooperation Agreement, including our continued expansion and diversification, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Additionally, although the Cooperation Agreement amends certain provisions of the Reorganization Agreement and also acknowledges the understandings that have been reached between us and the State Holding Company to jointly undertake efforts to expand and diversify the business of Yuchai, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement those efforts or as to when the transactions contemplated therein will be consummated. 10 Table of Contents We have and may continue to experience disagreements and difficulties with the Chinese shareholders in Yuchai. Although we own 76.4% of the outstanding shares of Yuchai, and believe we have proper legal ownership of our investment and a controlling financial interest in Yuchai, in the event there is a dispute with Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders regarding our investment in Yuchai, we may have to rely on the Chinese legal system for remedies. The Chinese legal system may not be as effective as compared to other more developed countries, such as the United States. See “— Risks relating to China — The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors.” We have, in the past experienced problems from time to time in obtaining assistance and cooperation of Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders in the daily management and operation of Yuchai. We have, in the past also experienced problems from time to time in obtaining the assistance and cooperation of the State Holding Company in dealing with other various matters, including the implementation of corporate governance procedures, the payment of dividends, the holding of Yuchai board meetings and the resolution of employee-related matters. Examples of these problems are described elsewhere in this Annual Report. The July 2003 Agreement, the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement are intended to resolve certain issues relating to our share ownership in Yuchai and the continued corporate governance and other difficulties which we have had with respect to Yuchai. As part of the terms of the Reorganization Agreement, Yuchai agreed that it would seek the requisite shareholder approval prior to entering into any material transactions (including any agreements or arrangements with parties related to Yuchai or any of its shareholders) and that it would comply with its governance requirements. Yuchai also acknowledged and affirmed the Company’s continued rights as majority shareholder to direct the management and policies of Yuchai through Yuchai’s Board of Directors. Yuchai’s Articles of Association have been amended and such amended Articles of Association as approved by the Guangxi Department of Commerce on December 2, 2009, entitle the Company to elect nine of Yuchai’s 13 directors, thereby reaffirming the Company’s right to effect all major decisions relating to Yuchai. While Yuchai has affirmed the Company’s continued rights as Yuchai’s majority shareholder and authority to direct the management and policies of Yuchai, no assurance can be given that disagreements and difficulties with Yuchai’s management and/or Yuchai’s Chinese shareholders will not recur, including implementation of the Reorganization Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement, corporate governance matters or related party transactions. Such disagreements and difficulties could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements in the future, or cause us not to be able to provide timely financial information, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. We restated our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, and reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that as of December 31, 2005 to 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and as of December 31, 2006 to 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. However, during the period covered by this Annual Report, no material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting was identified and management has concluded that as of December 31, 2012, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were effective. Our current independent registered public accounting firm has expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” We cannot assure you that material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or improve existing controls or implement new controls could result in material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations which in turn could cause our shares to be de-listed or suspended from trading on the NYSE. In addition, any such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and adversely affect the results of annual management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price. Our exposure to the Dongfeng Group has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our sales are concentrated among the Dongfeng Group, which includes the Dongfeng Automobile Company, one of the largest state-owned automobile companies in China, and other major diesel truck manufacturers controlled by or affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company. In 2012, sales to the Dongfeng Group accounted for 18.2% of our total net revenues, of which sales to our two largest customers, Liuzhou Dongfeng Automobile and Hubei Dongfeng Automobile, accounted for 4.5% and 3.9% respectively. Although we consider our relationship with the Dongfeng Group to be good, the loss of one or more of the companies within the Dongfeng Group as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In addition, we are dependent on the purchases made by the Dongfeng Group from us and have exposure to their liquidity arising from the high level of accounts receivable from them. We cannot assure you that the Dongfeng Group will be able to repay all the money they owe to us. In addition, the Dongfeng Group may not be able to continue purchasing the same volume of products from us which would reduce our overall sales volume. The Dongfeng Group also competes with us in the diesel engine market in China. Although we believe that the companies within the Dongfeng Group generally make independent purchasing decisions based on end-user preferences, we cannot assure you that truck manufacturers affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company will not preferentially purchase diesel engines manufactured by companies within the Dongfeng Group over those manufactured by us. 11 Table of Contents Competition in China from other diesel engine manufacturers may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. The diesel engine industry in China is highly competitive. We compete with many other China domestic companies, most of which are state-owned enterprises. Some of our competitors have formed joint ventures with or have technology assistance relationships with foreign diesel engine manufacturers or foreign engine design consulting firms and use foreign technology that is more advanced than ours. We expect competition to intensify as a result of: • improvements in competitors’ products; • increased production capacity of competitors; • increased utilization of unused capacity by competitors; and • price competition. In addition, we believe there is currently excess capacity in the diesel engine industry due to structural factors. The stimulus measures announced by the Chinese government in 2009 to counter the effects of the global financial crisis and maintain economic stability led to significantly increased demand for commercial vehicles in China in 2010, which we believe led our competitors to invest in significant capacity expansion. These investments have already significantly increased the overall capacity in the industry, and we believe capacity will continue to increase over the next several years as expansions that have already been commenced are completed. The market for commercial vehicles in China softened in 2011 and this continued into 2012 due to a variety of factors including the phasing out of government incentives for car purchases, the introduction of policies to restrict automotive growth in Beijing and other major cities to curb emissions and ease traffic congestion and a slowdown in China’s economy. We believe that there may not be sufficient demand for the increased capacity in the industry. Excess capacity in the diesel engine industry could lead to a decrease in prices in the diesel engine market, generally, as we and our competitors compete through lower prices, which could adversely impact our revenues, margins and overall profitability. Furthermore, if restrictions and tariffs on the import of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts into China are reduced, foreign competition could increase significantly. An increase in competition as a result of these various factors operating singly or together may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of lower gross margins, higher fixed costs or decreasing market share. Our long-term business prospects will depend largely upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices. Our competitors in the diesel engine markets may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers. Competition in the end-user markets, mainly the truck market, may also lead to technological improvements and advances that render our current products obsolete at an earlier than expected date, in which case we may have to depreciate or impair our production equipment more rapidly than planned. Failure to introduce or delays in the introduction of new or improved products at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to continue our sales growth. In 2011 and 2012, due to a softening in the commercial vehicle market in China, our net sales decreased by 4.7% and 12.9%, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our net sales or maintain our present level of net sales. For example, we may not be able to increase our net sales commensurate with our increased levels of production capacity. Moreover, our future growth is dependent in large part on factors beyond our control, such as the continued growth and stability of the global and Chinese economies. According to the World Bank’s latest Global Economic Prospects issued on January 15, 2013, the global financial crisis continues four years after it started although the worst appears to be over. According to the World Bank, the world economy continued to struggle as economic activity in the high income countries was dampened by the Eurozone crisis as well as uncertainty resulting from the fiscal challenges in the U.S. While growth rates in developing countries have fallen, they were still expanding faster than the high income countries. Slow growth is characterizing the high income regions of the world namely, Europe, the United States and Japan, and the World Bank has forecast growth in these advanced economies to remain at 1.3% in 2013. The global economy remains fragile as high income countries continue to suffer from volatility and slow growth. If the situation in Europe deteriorates or if the United States is unable to promptly address its debt and fiscal problems, which would impact on the global economy, China’s export growth would be adversely affected which would have a negative effect on its economy. China’s growth rate continued to slow in 2012 amid weaknesses in the global economy, in particular the key export markets of the United States and Europe. In an effort to avert a slowdown in the Chinese economy, the Chinese government quickened the approval process for infrastructure projects and cut interest rates in June and July 2012 and bank reserve requirements in February and May 2012. Although growth in the fourth quarter of 2012 improved to 7.9% after declining for the previous seven quarters, the Chinese government has set its growth target in 2013 at 7.5%, the same level as that set for 2012, in part due to the continuing impact of the global financial crisis and the uncertain recovery of the world economy. Any weakness or instability in the global or Chinese economies could, in turn, adversely impact the commercial vehicle market in China and our sales growth. 12 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly manage any future growth, including: • obtaining the necessary supplies, including the availability of raw materials; • hiring and training skilled production workers and management personnel; • manufacturing and delivering products for increased orders in a timely manner; • maintaining quality standards and prices; • controlling production costs; and • obtaining adequate funding on commercially reasonable terms for future growth. Furthermore, we have acquired in the past, and may acquire in the future, equity interests in engine parts suppliers and logistics and marketing companies. If we are unable to effectively manage or assimilate these acquisitions, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Products and Product Development — Yuchai.” If we are not able to continuously improve our existing engine products and develop new diesel engine products or successfully enter into other markets, we may become less competitive, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects will be adversely affected. As the Chinese automotive industry continues to develop, we will have to continuously improve our existing engine products, develop new diesel engine products and enter into new markets in order to remain competitive. As a result, our long-term business prospects will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices and enter into new markets. Future products may utilize different technologies and may require knowledge of markets that we do not currently possess. Moreover, our competitors may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers than our products or enter into new markets with an early-entrant advantage. Any failure by us to introduce, or any delays in the introduction of, new or improved products at competitive prices or entering into new markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. On April 10, 2007, Yuchai signed a Cooperation Framework Agreement with Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., Ltd (“Geely”) and Zhejiang Yinlun Machinery Company Limited (“Yinlun”) to consider establishing a proposed joint venture company to develop diesel engines for passenger cars in China. In December 2007, further to the Cooperation Framework Agreement, Yuchai entered into an Equity Joint Venture Agreement with Geely and Yinlun, to form two joint venture companies — one in Tiantai, Zhejiang Province (“Zhejiang Yuchai”) and the other in Jining, Shandong Province (“Jining Yuchai”) — which have been duly incorporated. The joint venture companies were to be primarily engaged in the development, production and sales of a proprietary diesel engine and its parts for passenger vehicles. On May 22, 2012, in order to streamline the operations of both joint venture companies, we announced that Yuchai had entered into a share swap agreement such that Yuchai exited from Zhejiang Yuchai and increased its stake in Jining Yuchai. The share swap involved Yuchai transferring its 52% shareholding in Zhejiang Yuchai to Yinlun, and Yinlun transferring its 18% shareholding in Jining Yuchai to Yuchai, such that Yuchai now holds a 70% shareholding in Jining Yuchai with Geely maintaining its 30% shareholding. The share swap agreement also provided for the technology for the 4D20 diesel engine to be entirely owned by Jining Yuchai. Tests on the second-generation prototype 4D20 diesel engines designed for passenger vehicles to be produced by Jining Yuchai are scheduled to be completed by mid-2013. On December 11, 2009, Yuchai entered into a joint venture agreement with Caterpillar (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (“Caterpillar China”) to establish a new joint venture company in China to provide remanufacturing services for and relating to Yuchai’s diesel engines and components and certain Caterpillar diesel engines and components. The new joint venture company, Yuchai Remanufacturing Services (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. was incorporated on April 7, 2010 in Suzhou, Jiangsu province. Operations at a temporary workshop commenced in 2011. The permanent factory located in the Suzhou Industrial Park was inaugurated on July 13, 2012 and full remanufacturing operations at the permanent factory have since commenced. On August 11, 2009, Yuchai, pursuant to a Framework Agreement entered into with Jirui United Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. (“Jirui United”), a company jointly established by China International Marine Containers Group Ltd and Chery Automobile Co., Ltd., and Shenzhen City Jiusi Investment Management Co., Ltd incorporated Y & C Engine Co., Ltd. in Wuhu City, Anhui Province to produce heavy-duty vehicle engines with the displacement range from 10.5L to 14L. The key focus of the joint venture company is the production of YC6K diesel engines. The full production line commenced operations in December 2010. There can be no assurance that these joint ventures will be successful or profitable. In March 2012, we announced that Yuchai will be constructing a new facility at its main manufacturing facility at Yulin City, Guangxi Province to develop and produce a full portfolio of natural gas engines to complement its existing suite of diesel engines. In December 2012, we announced that seven new models of natural gas engine would be launched during 2013, all of which would be compliant with China’s National V emission standards. The main applications of Yuchai’s natural gas engines are in the large bus, mid- to heavy-duty truck, power generator and marine sectors. This new facility is expected to be completed in the second half of 2013. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Products and Product Development — Yuchai — Other products and services” for more information on Yuchai’s natural gas engines. 13 Table of Contents Natural gas engines represent an emerging market in China, as well as in other countries around the world, and the development of a sustainable market for natural gas engines may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products; • the future cost and availability of natural gas; • the successful development of natural gas refuelling infrastructure; • the structure and implementation of government policies, including the availability of government incentives; • consumer perceptions of the safety of natural gas engines; and • consumer reluctance to adopt new products. There can be no assurance that a sustainable market for natural gas vehicles will develop in China or in other countries around the world or that our initiative to enter the natural gas engine market will be successful or profitable. We may be unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund our capital requirements which could limit our growth potential. We believe that our cash from operations, together with any necessary borrowings, will provide sufficient financial resources to meet our projected capital and other expenditure requirements. If we have underestimated our capital requirements or overestimated our future cash flows, additional financing may be required. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to various uncertainties, including our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow, economic, political and other conditions in China, the Chinese government’s policies relating to foreign currency borrowings and the condition of the Chinese and international capital markets. If adequate capital is not available, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected. We could be exposed to the impact of interest rates and foreign currency movements with respect to our future borrowings and business. We may use borrowings from time to time to supplement our working capital requirements and to finance our business expansion and diversification plan. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A portion of our borrowings may be structured on a floating rate basis and denominated in US dollars, Singapore dollars or Renminbi. In 2011, Yuchai issued Rmb-denominated unsecured short-term financing bonds (“STFBs”) in China amounting to Rmb 2.4 billion upon the receipt of approval from China’s National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors (“NAFMII”), a self-regulatory association of institutional investors in the inter-bank market in China under the supervision of the PBOC, at interest rates ranging from 4.59% to 5.77% per annum. The STFBs were fully repaid on their respective maturity dates in 2012. In 2012, Yuchai issued STFBs amounting to RMB1.0 billion at an interest rate of 4.45% per annum which will mature in August 2013. Any fluctuations in interest rates, or fluctuations in exchange rates between the Renminbi or Singapore dollars and US dollars, may increase our borrowing costs or the availability of funding. This could affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In particular, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected by a devaluation of the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in Chinese government policies and to international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, has been based on rates set by the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, China reformed its foreign exchange regime by moving into a managed floating exchange rate system based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies, such that the Renminbi was no longer pegged to the US dollar. From July 20, 2005 to December 31, 2012, the Renminbi appreciated about 24.1% against the US dollar. From December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2012, the Singapore dollar appreciated about 15% against the US dollar. Since we may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi or Singapore dollar fluctuations, future movements in the exchange rate of the Renminbi, the Singapore dollar and other currencies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If China’s inflation increases or the prices of energy or raw materials increase, we may not be able to pass the resulting increased costs to our customers and this may adversely affect our profitability or cause us to suffer operating losses. Economic growth in China has, in the past, been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to control inflation. For example, the Chinese government has periodically introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb inflation, which has resulted in a decrease in the rate of inflation. The global economic crisis resulted in a slowing of the rate of inflation in January 2009 and thereafter into negative territory until November and December 2009 according to the National Bureau of Statistics. In 2010, the annual inflation rate was 3.3% which increased to 5.4% in 2011 leading to the Chinese government raising lending interest rates and the reserve requirements for banks six times in 2011 to counter accelerating inflation. The annual inflation rate for 2012 fell to 2.7% as a result of the slowing economy which weakened further in January 2013 to 2% but strengthened to 3.2% in February 2013, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. China’s central bank, in its quarterly monetary policy report issued on February 6, 2013, noted that external forces such as monetary easing in major economies may make global capital flows more volatile and push up commodity prices resulting in inflationary pressures in emerging economies within a short period of time. On March 5, 2013, at Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s last annual address to open the National People’s Congress in Beijing, he announced that the inflation target for China in 2013 was 3.5%, down from 4% in 2012. An increase in inflation could cause our costs for parts and components, labor costs, raw materials and other operating costs to increase, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese national and local environmental protection regulations which currently impose fees for the discharge of waste substances, require the payment of fines for pollution, and provide for the closure by the Chinese government of any facility that fails to comply with orders requiring us to cease or improve upon certain activities causing environmental damage. Due to the nature of our business, we produce certain amounts of waste water, gas, and solid waste materials during the course of our production. We believe our environmental protection facilities and systems are adequate for us to comply with the existing national, provincial and local environmental protection regulations. However, Chinese national, provincial or local authorities may impose additional or more stringent regulations which would require additional expenditure on environmental matters or changes in our processes or systems. The manufacture and sales of Euro 0 and Euro I engines in major urban areas became unlawful after August 31, 2004. After that date, the engines equipped with Euro 0 and Euro I engines are not permitted to be sold and used in major urban areas. The manufacture and sale of Euro II engines was phased out from June 30, 2008. In July 2008, China officially implemented the National III emission standards throughout China. The increasingly stringent emission standards led to the early implementation of the National IV emission standards in the main cities of Beijing in 2008, Shanghai in 2009 and Shenzhen and Guangzhou in 2010. The National IV emission standards for diesel engines are targeted to be implemented throughout China on July 1, 2013. In an effort to combat increasing air pollution, the National V emission standards for natural gas engines were implemented throughout China on January 1, 2013. In addition, the Chinese government has mandated that all new registrations in Beijing of diesel engine vehicles for use in public transit and light-duty gasoline powered engine vehicles must comply with the National V emission standards with effect from February 1, 2013 and March 1, 2013, respectively. While Yuchai produces diesel engines compliant with National III emission standards, it has the ability to produce certain diesel engines compliant with National IV and V emission standards and certain natural gas engines compliant with National IV and V emission standards, as well as develop alternative fuels and environmentally friendly hybrid engines with improved fuel efficiency, there can be no assurance that Yuchai will be able to comply with these emission standards or that the introduction of these and other environmental regulations will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover risks related to our production and other operations. The amount of our insurance coverage for our buildings and equipment is at cost which could be less than replacement value, and we have no plans to increase the coverage. The amount of our insurance coverage for our inventory is at book value which could be less than replacement value, and we also have no plans to increase this coverage. In accordance with what we believe is customary practice among industrial equipment manufacturers in China, we insure only high risk assets, such as production property and equipment and certain inventory. However, our under insurance of other properties, facilities and inventory in accordance with this Chinese practice exposes us to substantial risks so that in the event of a major accident, our insurance recovery may be inadequate. We do not currently carry third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. We also do not carry business interruption insurance as such coverage is not customary in China. Losses incurred or payments required to be made by us which are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks relating to China Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economic system of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government investment, the level of development, control of capital investment, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. 15 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy and a higher level of management autonomy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress, but the growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Economic growth has also been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to restrain the rate of such economic growth, control inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. For example, the Chinese government has from time to time introduced measures in certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, including tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb property, stock market speculation and inflation. Severe measures or other actions by the Chinese government, such as placing additional controls on the prices of diesel and diesel-using products, could restrict our business operations and adversely affect our financial position. Although we believe that the economic reforms and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese government will continue to have a positive effect in the longer term on economic development in China and that we will continue to benefit in the longer term from these policies and measures, these policies and measures may, from time to time, be modified or reversed. On March 5, 2013, at Premier Wen Jiabao’s last annual address to open the National People’s Congress in Beijing, he announced that the growth target for China in 2013 remained at 7.5%, the same level as that set for 2012, in part due to the continuing impact of the global financial crisis and the uncertain recovery of the world economy. Premier Wen also noted that expanding domestic demand would be China’s long-term strategy for economic development and that a proper level of economic growth was required to be maintained in order to implement this. A once-in-a decade leadership change in China commenced in November 2012 and was completed in mid-March 2013, whereby Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang officially succeeded Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao as President and Premier, respectively. In view of the announced increase in focus on domestic consumption, changes to existing economic policies are expected to be implemented by the new leadership. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in China, in the policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and infrastructure investment in China. These developments could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business, by reducing the demand for our products. Adverse economic developments in China or elsewhere in the Asian region could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Since the late 1990s, many Asian countries have experienced significant changes in economic conditions, including, for example, substantial depreciation in currency exchange rates, increased interest rates, reduced economic growth rates, corporate bankruptcies, volatility in the market values of shares listed on stock exchanges, decreases in foreign currency turnover and government-imposed austerity measures. Many Asian governments have implemented and continue to implement policy measures to counter the effects of the global financial crisis that began in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and maintain economic stability. For example, as a result of China’s slowing growth in 2012 amid weaknesses in the global economy, in particular the key export markets of the United States and Europe, the Chinese government quickened the approval process for infrastructure projects and cut interest rates in June and July 2012 and bank reserve requirements in February and May 2012 in an effort to avert a sharp slowdown in its economy. Although growth in China in the fourth quarter of 2012 improved to 7.9% after seven quarters of declining growth, the Chinese government is forecasting growth in 2013 to remain at 7.5%, the same level as that set for 2012 in part due to the continuing impact of the global financial crisis and the uncertain recovery of the world economy. On March 5, 2013, in his last annual address to open the National People’s Congress in Beijing, Premier Wen Jiabao also noted that expanding domestic demand would be China’s long-term strategy for economic development and that a proper level of economic growth was required to be maintained in order to change the growth model and restructure the economy. With the completion of the once-in-a decade leadership change in mid—March 2013, new economic policies and incentives are anticipated to be announced and implemented over the coming months. There can be no assurance these, or other, policy measures will have their intended effect on economic growth in China which, in turn, could impact the commercial vehicle market in China and our sales growth. Demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases during periods of economic expansion and decreases during periods of economic slowdown. In the event that adverse economic developments occur in China, our sales may decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could therefore suffer. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedent value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general including, for example, with respect to corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. Since China’s economic reform and opening-up in late 1970s, legislation has significantly enhanced the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties and may not be consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions which may limit the legal protection available to foreign investors. Our operations in China are subject to PRC regulations governing PRC companies. These regulations contain provisions that are required to be included in the articles of association of PRC companies and are intended to regulate the internal affairs of these companies. The PRC Company Law and these regulations, in general, and the provisions for the protection of shareholders’ rights and access to information, in particular, are less developed than those applicable to companies incorporated in the United States, Hong Kong or other developed countries or regions. In addition, the interpretation of PRC laws may be subject to policy changes which reflect domestic political changes. As China’s legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may have an adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We may not freely convert Renminbi into foreign currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our foreign currency requirements or to pay dividends to shareholders. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are generated by our Chinese operating subsidiary, Yuchai, and are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our indebtedness is, or in the future may be, denominated in US dollars and other foreign currencies. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes, among other things, foreign direct investment, overseas borrowings by Chinese entities and proceeds of overseas public offering by Chinese entities. Some of the conversions between Renminbi and foreign currency under capital account are subject to the prior approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, as a foreign invested enterprise, may purchase foreign currency without the approval of SAFE for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends, by providing commercial documents evidencing these transactions. Our Chinese operating subsidiary may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a cap approved by SAFE) to satisfy foreign currency liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, therefore, may not be able to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy its foreign currency requirements to pay dividends to us for our use in making any future dividend payments or to satisfy other foreign currency payment requirements. Foreign currency transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from SAFE. This could affect our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Furthermore, the General Affairs Department of SAFE promulgated circulars in August 2008 and July 2011, pursuant to which, Renminbi converted from capital contribution in foreign currency to a domestic enterprise in China can only be used for the activities that are within the approved business scope of such enterprise and cannot be used for China domestic equity investment, acquisition, giving entrusted loans or repayment of intercompany loans, with limited exceptions. As a result, we may not be able to increase the capital contribution of our operating subsidiary, Yuchai and subsequently convert such capital contribution into Renminbi for equity investment or acquisition in China. Outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Avian flu (H5N1 and H7N9), in various parts of China and other countries may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. In April 2009, an outbreak of a new strain of influenza identified as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus occurred in Mexico resulting in a number of deaths. In a matter of weeks, the H1N1 virus had spread internationally but the symptoms in cases outside of Mexico were milder than world health officials had feared with fewer resulting deaths compared to Mexico, the epicentre of the epidemic. The spread of the virus worldwide caused the World Health Organization (“WHO”) to declare the H1N1 virus outbreak a global pandemic on June 11, 2009. However, the WHO in January 2010 said that the pandemic was easing although it warned of a possible new wave of infections in the northern hemisphere in late winter or early spring. In August 2010, the WHO declared the H1N1 pandemic officially over but anticipated that localized outbreaks with significant levels of H1N1 transmission might occur. The high unpredictability of the future evolution of this new virus and the possibility of a widespread re-occurrence may have a significant impact on global economic activity. In 2003, several countries, including China, experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which severely restricted the level of economic activity in affected areas, including Beijing and Guangdong Province. The SARS epidemic in China had an adverse impact on the sale of engines, particularly during the second and third quarters in 2003. Although this SARS outbreak was brought under control during 2003, there have been a number of cases reported in China and elsewhere in the Asia region since that outbreak. In addition, an infectious strain of influenza known as the H5N1 Avian flu has been reported from time to time in China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, and other parts of Asia. In March 2013, there was an outbreak of a new strain of Avian flu (H7N9) in east China’s Anhui, Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces which resulted in a number of deaths as reported by the Chinese authorities. In September 2012, WHO issued an international alert of a new virus known as the novel coronavirus, or NCoV. The virus first emerged in the Middle East and was discovered in September 2012 when the United Kingdom informed WHO of a case of acute respiratory syndrome. The NCoV virus belongs to the same family of virus as SARs. On February 11, 2013, WHO confirmed 11 cases of the novel coronavirus but said that the risk of sustained person-to-person transmission appeared very low. On March 12, 2013 WHO reiterated calls on its members states to remain vigilant for cases of severe acute respiratory infections and to carefully review any unusual patterns. The potential outbreaks of other infectious diseases could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Our auditor engages its China-based affiliate to audit our China entities and as such affiliate is not permitted under Chinese law to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies whose shares are publicly traded in the United States is registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). As a PCAOB registered firm, our auditor is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and relevant professional standards. Our auditor engages its China-based affiliate to audit our China entities and China is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of the China-based affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of such affiliate’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 17 Table of Contents In December 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under the Securities Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act against the Chinese affiliates of five global accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, for their failure to respond to the SEC’s request to produce audit work papers of nine U.S. listed Chinese companies suspected of potential accounting fraud. The Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms refused to produce the documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our independent registered public accounting firm or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms. However, the Chinese affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC is one of the five accounting firms named in the SEC’s proceedings. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s proceedings, if the Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms are denied, temporarily or permanently, from practicing before the SEC, U.S. listed companies with major China operations will find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors for their China operations and meet their reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, which may result in their delisting from U.S. stock exchanges. Any negative news about the proceedings against the Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, U.S. listed companies which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Although the China Securities Regulatory Commission has been and continues to be in discussions with the SEC, PCAOB and other regulators on the production of audit work papers by China-based accounting firms, we cannot predict the outcome of such discussions and its resultant impact on the SEC administrative proceedings. Risks relating to our investment in HLGE The HLGE group operates hotels in the PRC and Malaysia. As of March 8, 2013, we had a 48.9% shareholding interest in HLGE, a company listed on the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Business Expansion and Diversification Plan” for further information on our investment in HLGE. Set forth below are risks related to our equity interest in HLGE. The HLGE group’s hotel ownership and management business may be adversely affected by risks inherent in the hotel industry. The HLGE group’s financial performance is dependent on the performance of each of the hotels it operates. The HLGE group’s hotel ownership and management business are exposed to risks which are inherent in and/or common to the hotel industry and which may adversely affect the HLGE group’s financial performance, including the following: • changes to the international, regional and local economic climate and market conditions (including but not limited to changes to regional and local populations, changes in travel patterns and preferences, and oversupply of or reduced demand for hotel rooms that may result in reduced occupancy levels and performance for the hotels it operates); • changes to the political, economic, legal or social environments of the countries in which the HLGE group operates (including developments with respect to inflation, interest rates, currency fluctuations, governmental policies, real estate laws and regulations, taxation, fuel costs, expropriation, including the impact of the current global financial crisis); • increased threat of terrorism, terrorist events, airline strikes, hostilities between countries or increased risk of natural disasters or viral epidemics that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of travelers and tourists; • changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those relating to the operation of hotels, preparation and sale of food and beverages, occupational health and safety working conditions and laws and regulations governing its relationship with employees); • competition from other international, regional and independent hotel companies, some of which may have greater name recognition and financial resources than the HLGE group (including competition in relation to hotel room rates, convenience, services or amenities offered); • losses arising out of damage to the HLGE group’s hotels, where such losses may not be covered by the insurance policies maintained by the HLGE group; • increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, utility costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; • fluctuations in foreign currencies arising from the HLGE group’s various currency exposures; • dependence on leisure travel and tourism; • the outbreak of communicable diseases, such as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus and the Avian flu (H5N1 and H7N9), which if not contained, could potentially adversely affect the operations of the HLGE group and its business in the hospitality industry; and • adverse effects of a downturn in the hospitality industry. The above factors may materially affect the performance of those hotels and the profitability and financial condition of the HLGE group. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer any losses arising from our investment in HLGE. 18 Table of Contents The hospitality business is a regulated business. The operation of hotels in the PRC and Malaysia is subject to various laws and regulations. The withdrawal, suspension or non-renewal of any of the hotels’ licenses, or the imposition of any penalties, as a result of any infringement or non-compliance with any requirement, will have an adverse impact on the business and results of operations of the hotels that the HLGE group operates. Further, any changes in such laws and regulations may also have an impact on the businesses at the hotels and result in higher costs of compliance. In addition, any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or other penalties by the relevant authorities. This could have an adverse impact on the revenues and profits of HLGE group or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the hotels. The HLGE group may need to raise additional capital. The HLGE group has recorded pre-tax losses for the last four consecutive fiscal years, starting in 2009. Additionally, in March 2013, the shareholders of HLGE approved the disposition of two assets. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — The HLGE Group” for additional information on these dispositions. One of the assets, a joint venture company that owns Hotel Equatorial Shanghai, represents a significant majority of the HLGE group’s revenue from operations. This disposition may cause the HLGE group to experience a significant decline in revenues, which could adversely impact its cash flow. The HLGE group will likely require additional funds for its core businesses and to invest in future growth opportunities. There is no assurance that the HLGE group would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to finance such endeavors. Accordingly, the HLGE group may, depending on the cash flow requirements and financial condition, need to raise additional funds by issuing equity or a combination of equity and debt or by entering into strategic relationships or through other arrangements. Any additional equity financing by HLGE may dilute our equity interests in HLGE. Any debt financing may contain restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, future capital raising and other financial and operational matters. Failure to obtain additional financing where such financing is required on acceptable terms, if at all, will adversely affect the HLGE group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group’s ability to pursue its growth plans. The HLGE group may be unable to raise sufficient funds to pay its debt obligations to us. The HLGE group will require funds to repay its outstanding debt owed to us. On January 30, 2013, we announced the extension of an S$75 million loan to HLGE for another year from July 2013 to July 2014 on substantially similar terms as the previous loan agreement. The interest rate margin for the loan remained unchanged at 1.5%. The original amount of the loan was S$93 million which was granted to HLGE by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Venture Lewis Limited (“Venture Lewis”) in February 2009 to refinance the outstanding zero coupon unsecured non-convertible bonds previously issued by HLGE and which matured on July 3, 2009. Venture Lewis held a majority of the bonds. Pursuant to the terms of the original loan agreement entered into in February 2009, on the maturity date of the bonds, HLGE will redeem fully the bonds held by all minority bondholders and pay to Venture Lewis a portion of the principal and gross redemption yield. The remaining amount due to Venture Lewis on the maturity date would be refinanced through an unsecured loan arrangement with a one-year term, renewable by mutual agreement on an annual basis. An option for HLGE to undertake a partial redemption of the Bonds on a pro-rata basis prior to the maturity date was included in the original loan agreement. On February 19, 2009, HLGE announced an early partial redemption on a pro-rata basis of up to S$9.0 million in principal amount of the outstanding bonds and on March 23, 2009, HLGE effected payment to all bondholders. Under the original loan agreement, the loan was due to be repaid in July 2010 but was extended for one year to July 2011 pursuant to a loan agreement entered into on February 3, 2010. A loan agreement was entered into on January 31, 2011 extending the loan for another year from July 2011 to July 2012. On February 16, 2011, HLGE effected a partial prepayment of S$10 million towards the loan to us reducing the principal amount of the loan from S$93 million to S$83 million. On January 19, 2012, we announced the extension of the S$83 million loan to HLGE for another year from July 2012 to July 2013 on substantially similar terms as the previous loan agreement, except that the interest payable had been reduced from 2.52% per annum to 2.08% per annum. On April 30 2012, HLGE effected a partial payment of S$8 million towards the loan to us reducing the principal amount of the loan from S$83 million to S$75 million. In public filings, the HLGE group has indicated that it will use part of the approximately S$16.1 million in proceeds from the two announced dispositions to make additional partial repayments. In addition, one of the assets to be disposed, a hotel joint venture, represents a significant majority of the HLGE group’s revenue from operations, which could cause it to experience a significant decline in revenues, which could adversely impact its cash flow and make it even more difficult for the HLGE group to repay its debt obligations to us. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — The HLGE Group” for additional information on these dispositions. There is no assurance that the HLGE group will make those announced repayments or that it would be able to generate sufficient internal funds to redeem the outstanding debt owing to us either through additional disposals of their assets or potential merger and acquisition opportunities to grow its earnings base. Failure to obtain sufficient funds to repay outstanding debt will adversely affect the HLGE group’s business, financial performance and financial position and the HLGE group’s ability to repay its outstanding debts owing to us could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment in the HLGE group. 19 Table of Contents 