Item 1A. Risk Factors This Report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which reflect our expectation or belief concerning future events that involve risks and uncertainties. We can not assure you that the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements will prove correct. Various factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations, such as: o changes in laws or regulations affecting our operations; o changes in our business tactics or strategies; o acquisitions of new or complementary operations; o sales of any of our existing operations; o changing market forces or contingencies that necessitate, in our judgment, changes in our plans, strategy or tactics; and o fluctuations in the investment markets or interest rates, which might materially affect our operations or financial condition. In addition, the following matters, and all forward-looking statements, are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements: Increased competition would hurt our business and financial results. We face competition in our markets from a number of large and small companies, some of which have greater financial, research and development, production and other resources than we do. Our competitive position is based principally on performance, quality, customer support, service, breadth of product line, manufacturing or packaging technology and the selling prices of our products. Our competitors can be expected to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We may not have sufficient resources to maintain our current competitive position or market share. One of our customers accounts for about 10% of our business; the loss of that customer could adversely impact our business and financial results. Due to consolidation of customer businesses in the contract sterilization industry, we have one specialty products customer, which accounted for approximately 9% and 11% of our net sales in 2005 and 2004, respectively. This customer accounted for 8% and 10% of our accounts receivable net balance at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 6 The loss of governmental permits and approvals would materially harm some of our businesses. Pursuant to applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, we are required to obtain and maintain certain governmental permits and approvals, including an EPA registration for our ethylene oxide sterilant product. We maintain an EPA registration of ethylene oxide as a medical device sterilant and fumicide. We are in the process of re-registering this product in accordance with FIFRA. There is no guaranty that the EPA will continue to allow registration of ethylene oxide for the uses mentioned above. The failure of the EPA to allow re-registration of ethylene oxide would have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Channahon, Illinois manufacturing facility manufactures our calcium carbonate line of pharmaceutical ingredients. This facility is registered with the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") as a drug manufacturing facility. These products also must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations as interpreted and enforced by the FDA. Modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing facilities or procedures of our pharmaceutical products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Our Channahon, Illinois facility, as well as those of any third-party cGMP manufacturers that we may use, are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the results of these inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Permits and approvals may be subject to revocation, modification or denial under certain circumstances. Our operations or activities (including the status of compliance by the prior owner of the Verona, Missouri facility under Superfund remediation) could result in administrative or private actions, revocation of required permits or licenses, or fines, penalties or damages, which could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we can not predict the extent to which any legislation or regulation may affect the market for our products or our cost of doing business. Raw material shortages or price increases would adversely affect our business and financial results. The principal raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products can be subject to price fluctuations. While the selling prices of our products tend to increase or decrease over time with the cost of raw materials, these changes may not occur simultaneously or to the same degree. At times, we may be unable to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers in the form of price increases. Increases in the price of raw materials, if not offset by product price increases, would have an adverse impact on our profitability. We are not experiencing any current difficulties in procuring raw materials and we do not anticipate any such problems. However, we can not assure you that this will always be the case. Our financial success depends in part on the reliability and sufficiency of our manufacturing facilities. Our revenues depend on the continued operation of our manufacturing, packaging, and processing facilities. The operation of our facilities involves risks, including the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, power outages, the improper installation, or operation of equipment, explosions, fires, natural disasters and the need to comply with environmental and other directives of governmental agencies. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, could adversely affect our profitability during the period of such operational difficulties. 7 Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and financial results. We hold 15 patents in the United States and overseas, as well as utilize certain unpatented trade secrets. Third parties could seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents. Moreover, there could be successful claims against us alleging that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to protect all of our intellectual property rights, or if we are found to be infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there could be an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our competitive position also depends on unpatented trade secrets. Competitors could independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, which could hurt our business and financial results. We face risks associated with our sales to customers outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 7% of our net sales consisted of sales outside the United States, predominately to Europe, Japan and Mexico. Such sales are generally denominated in U.S. Dollars at a specific price per unit. Changes in the relative values of currencies take place from time to time and could in the future adversely affect prices foreign customers are willing to pay for our products. In addition, international sales are subject to other inherent risks, including possible labor unrest, political instability, export duties and quotas. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase or maintain our international sales. Our success depends in large part on our key personnel. Our operations significantly depend on the continued efforts of our senior executives. The loss of the services of certain executives for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Litigation can be costly and can adversely affect our business and financial results. We, like all companies involved in the food and pharmaceutical industries, are subject to potential claims for product liability relating to our products. Such claims, irrespective of their outcomes or merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of management time and attention. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. It is possible that an adverse result in Casey Liesse, et al. v. AGA AB, et al. (please see Item 3 of the Report) or other legal proceedings commenced against us could have a negative impact on our financial condition or liquidity. If we are unable to increase sales to the pharmaceutical industry, our future growth could be limited. A significant part of our future growth depends on our ability to increase the sales of our current pharmaceutical product line, as well as the development of new products for use in the pharmaceutical industry. Our inability to execute this strategy could have an adverse effect on our future rate of growth. Available Information: - ---------------------- The Company's Internet website address is www.balchem.com. The Company makes available through its website, free of charge, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports are available via a link from the Investor Information page on the Company's website to a list of the Company's reports on the Securities and Exchange Commission's Edgar website. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 