Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: Increased competition could hurt our business and financial results. We face competition in our markets from a number of large and small companies, some of which have greater financial, research and development, production and other resources than we do. Our competitive position is based principally on performance, quality, customer support, service, breadth of product line, manufacturing or packaging technology and the selling prices of our products. Our competitors might be expected to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect to do the same to maintain our current competitive position and market share. One of our customers accounts for about 8% of our business; the loss of that customer could adversely impact our business and financial results. Due to consolidation of customer businesses in the contract sterilization industry, we have one specialty products customer, which accounted for approximately 8% and 9% of our net sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. This customer accounted for 10% and 8% of our accounts receivable net balance at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The loss of governmental permits and approvals would materially harm some of our businesses. Pursuant to applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, we are required to obtain and maintain certain governmental permits and approvals, including an EPA registration for our ethylene oxide sterilant product. We maintain an EPA registration of ethylene oxide as a medical device sterilant and fumicide. We are in the process of re-registering this product in accordance with FIFRA. The EPA may not allow re-registration of ethylene oxide for the uses mentioned above. The failure of the EPA to allow re-registration of ethylene oxide would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our Channahon, Illinois manufacturing facility manufactures a calcium carbonate line of pharmaceutical ingredients. This facility is registered with the FDA as a drug manufacturing facility. These products must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations as interpreted and enforced by the FDA. Modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing facilities or procedures of our pharmaceutical products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Our Channahon, Illinois facility, as well as those of any third-party cGMP manufacturers that we may use, are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the results of these inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with the FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Permits and approvals may be subject to revocation, modification or denial under certain circumstances. Our operations or activities (including the status of compliance by the prior owner of the Verona, Missouri facility under Superfund remediation) could result in administrative or private actions, revocation of required permits or licenses, or fines, penalties or damages, which could have an adverse 7 effect on us. In addition, we can not predict the extent to which any legislation or regulation may affect the market for our products or our cost of doing business. Raw material shortages or price increases could adversely affect our business and financial results. The principal raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products can be subject to price fluctuations. While the selling prices of our products tend to increase or decrease over time with the cost of raw materials, these changes may not occur simultaneously or to the same degree. At times, we may be unable to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers. Such increases in the price of raw materials, if not offset by product price increases, or substitute raw materials, would have an adverse impact on our profitability. Our financial success depends in part on the reliability and sufficiency of our manufacturing facilities. Our revenues depend on the effective operation of our manufacturing, packaging, and processing facilities. The operation of our facilities involves risks, including the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, power outages, the improper installation, or operation of equipment, explosions, fires, natural disasters and the need to comply with environmental and other directives of governmental agencies. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, could adversely affect our profitability during the period of such operational difficulties. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and financial results. We hold 15 patents in the United States and overseas. Third parties could seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents. Moreover, there could be successful claims against us alleging that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to protect all of our intellectual property rights, or if we are found to be infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there could be an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our competitive position also depends on our use of unpatented trade secrets. Competitors could independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, which could hurt our business and financial results. We face risks associated with our sales to customers outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 10% of our net sales consisted of sales outside the United States, predominately to Europe, Japan and China. Such sales are generally denominated in U.S. Dollars at a specific price per unit. Changes in the relative values of currencies take place from time to time and could in the future adversely affect prices foreign customers are willing to pay for our products. In addition, international sales are subject to other inherent risks, including possible labor unrest, political instability, export duties and quotas. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase or maintain our international sales. Our success depends in large part on our key personnel. Our operations significantly depend on the continued efforts of our senior executives. The loss of the services of certain executives for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Litigation could be costly and can adversely affect our business and financial results. We, like all companies involved in the food and pharmaceutical industries, are subject to potential claims for product liability relating to our products. Such claims, irrespective of their outcomes or merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of management time 8 and attention. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. It is possible that an adverse result in Casey Liesse, et al. v. AGA AB, et al. (see Item 3 of the Report) or other legal proceedings commenced against us could have a negative impact on our financial condition or liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 