Risk Factors We rely on our partners for product availability and competitive products to sell, and we also compete with many of our partners. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers and publishers and indirectly through distributors, and the loss of a significant partner relationship could cause a disruption in the availability of products to us. Most of our manufacturer and publisher partners are also our competitors, as many sell directly to business clients and, particularly, larger corporate clients. There is no assurance that, as manufacturers and publishers continue to sell both through the reseller channel and directly to end users, they will not limit or curtail the availability of their product to resellers like us. In addition, the manner in which publishers distribute software is changing, and many publishers now offer their programs as cloud, hosted or SaaS solutions. These changes in distribution may intensify competition and increase the volume of software made available to end users through these competitive programs. Any significant increase in such sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our partners for marketing funds and purchasing incentives. Certain manufacturers, publishers and distributors provide us with substantial incentives in the form of rebates, marketing funds, purchasing incentives, early payment discounts, referral fees and price protections. Partner funding is used to offset, among other things, inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we do not grow our net sales over prior periods or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by manufacturers and publishers. We anticipate that in the future the incentives that many partners make available to us may either be reduced or that the requirements for earning the available amounts will change. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the programs of publishers or manufacturers, including the elimination of, or significant reductions in, funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, particularly related to incentive programs with our largest partners, HP and Microsoft, the changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will continue to receive such incentives. Disruptions in our IT systems and voice and data networks, including the integration and upgrade of our IT systems, could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to our clients. Our ability to provide that level of service is largely dependent on the ease of use, accuracy, quality and utilization of our IT systems, which affects our ability to manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems, and the reliability of our voice and data networks and managed services offerings. Our plan is to fully integrate our IT systems in North America onto an integrated platform by the end of 2012. Significant internal and external resources have been devoted to the successful completion of this project. In 2012, we expect to incur additional selling and administrative expenses of $5 to $10 million and capital expenditures of $2 to $5 million to support the project through to completion. We are also in the process of converting our EMEA operations to a new IT system platform. There can be no assurances that these integration and conversion projects will not cause disruptions in our business, and any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any delay in the projects or disruption of service during those projects could have an adverse effect on current results and future sales growth. Further, any delay in the timing could reduce and/or delay our anticipated expense savings, and any such delay could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if, as a result of these projects, existing technology is determined to have a shorter useful life or the value of the existing system is impaired, we could incur additional depreciation expense and/or impairment charges. Although we have built redundancy into most of our IT systems, have documented system outage policies and procedures and have comprehensive data backup, we do not have a formal disaster recovery plan. Substantial interruption in our IT systems or in our voice and data networks, however caused, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions, including unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector, may lead our clients to delay or forgo investments in IT hardware, software and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Weak economic conditions generally or any broad-based reduction in IT spending adversely affects our business, operating results and financial condition. A prolonged slowdown in the global economy, or in a particular region or business or industry sector, such as the debt levels and financial viability of some European countries and lenders to those countries, or tightening of credit markets, could cause our clients to have difficulty accessing capital and credit sources, delay contractual payments, or delay or forgo decisions to (i) upgrade or add to their existing IT environments, (ii) license new software or (iii) purchase services (particularly with respect to discretionary spending for hardware, software and services). Such events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 11 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. The failure of our clients to pay the accounts receivable they owe to us or the loss of significant clients could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from clients. If clients comprising a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. Economic or industry downturns could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing under our accounts receivable securitization program, which is discussed below. Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Privacy, security, and compliance concerns have continued to increase as technology has evolved to facilitate commerce and as cross-border commerce increases. As part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information, including personal information of teammates and information about partners and clients which may be entitled to protection under a number of regulatory regimes. In the course of normal and customary business practice, we may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business. Moreover, the success of our operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. Any failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our teammates’, partners’ and clients’ confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The IT hardware, software and services industry is intensely competitive, and actions of our competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business. Competition in the industry is based on price, product availability, speed of delivery, credit availability, quality and breadth of product lines, and, increasingly, on the ability to tailor specific solutions to client needs. In addition to the manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, we compete with a large number and wide variety of providers and resellers of IT hardware, software and services. Additionally, we believe our industry will see further consolidation as product resellers and direct marketers combine operations or acquire or merge with other resellers, service providers and direct marketers to increase efficiency, service capabilities and market share. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their product and service offerings. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. Generally, pricing is very aggressive in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher net sales, cost reductions, greater sales of services, which are typically at higher gross margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our competitors in each of our operating segments have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to their customers and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors have higher margins and/or lower operating cost structures, allowing them to price more aggressively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. The cloud and “as a service” models may disrupt or alter the IT market in a significant way. In many cases, these new distribution models allow enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software with less complexity and lower initial set-up, operational and licensing costs. Advances in such models and other new models could introduce new competitors in the IT industry, increase our competition or reduce the need for a resale channel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt to, or compete effectively with, current or future distribution channels or competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The integration and operation of acquired businesses may disrupt our business and create additional expenses, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Integration of an acquired business involves numerous risks, including assimilation of operations of the acquired business and difficulties in the convergence of IT systems, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, assumption of unknown and unquantifiable liabilities, the potential loss of key teammates and/or clients, difficulties in completing strategic initiatives already underway in the acquired companies, and unfamiliarity with partners of the acquired company, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our integration of acquired businesses assumes certain synergies and other benefits. We cannot assure that these risks or other unforeseen factors will not offset the intended benefits of the acquisitions, in whole or in part. Changes in the IT industry and/or rapid changes in product standards may result in substantial inventory obsolescence and may reduce demand for the IT hardware, software and services we sell. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry introductions of new products. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products, which can decrease demand for current products or render them obsolete. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes, this may cause us to record write-downs of obsolete inventory. In addition, in order to satisfy client demand, protect ourselves against product shortages, obtain greater purchasing discounts and react to changes in original equipment manufacturers’ terms and conditions, we may decide to carry inventory products that may have limited or no return privileges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to inventory obsolescence on these products. The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our commercial and public sector contracts could result in, among other things, damages, fines or other liabilities. Sales to commercial clients are based on stated contract terms or terms contained in purchase orders on a transaction by transaction basis. Sales to public sector clients are derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental departments and agencies, as well as to educational institutions, through open market sales and various contracts and programs. Noncompliance with contract terms, particularly in the highly regulated public sector business, or with government procurement regulations could result in damage awards against us or termination of contracts, and, in the public sector, could also result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability. With respect to our public sector business, the government’s remedies may include suspension or debarment. In addition, almost all of our contracts have default provisions, and substantially all of our contracts in the public sector are terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency. The effect of any of these possible actions or the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations or practices could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We have outstanding debt and will need to refinance that debt and/or incur additional debt in the future, and general economic conditions and continued volatility in the credit markets could limit our ability to obtain such financing or could increase the cost of financing. Our credit facilities include a five-year $300.0 million senior revolving credit facility, a $150.0 million accounts receivable securitization financing facility (the “ABS facility”), and a $150.0 million inventory financing facility. As of December 31, 2011, we had $116.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, of which $115.0 million was borrowed under our senior revolving credit facility and $1.6 million was outstanding under a capital lease obligation. As of the end of fiscal 2011, the following amounts were available under our credit facilities, subject to the limitations discussed below: • $185.0 million under our senior revolving credit facility; • $150.0 million under our accounts receivable securitization financing facility; and • $56.1 million under our inventory financing facility. Our consolidated debt balance that can be outstanding at the end of any fiscal quarter under our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility is limited by certain financial covenants, particularly a maximum leverage ratio. The maximum leverage ratio is calculated as aggregate debt outstanding divided by the sum of the Company’s trailing 12-month net earnings plus (i) interest expense, excluding non-cash imputed interest on our inventory financing facility, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization and (iv) non-cash stock-based compensation (referred to herein as “adjusted earnings”). The maximum leverage ratio permitted under the agreements was 2.50 times the Company’s trailing 12-month adjusted earnings as of December 31, 2011. A significant drop in the Company’s adjusted earnings would limit the amount of indebtedness that could be outstanding at the end of any fiscal quarter, to a level that could be below the Company’s consolidated maximum debt capacity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total debt balance that could have been outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility and our ABS facility was equal to the maximum available under the facilities of $450.0 million. 13 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. Our borrowing capacity under our ABS facility is limited by the value and quality of the accounts receivable under the facility. While the ABS facility has a stated maximum amount of $150.0 million, the actual availability under the facility is limited by the quantity and quality of the underlying accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2011, the full $150.0 million was available. Our senior revolving credit facility, ABS facility and inventory financing facility all mature on April 1, 2013. We may not be able to refinance our debt without a significant increase in cost, or at all, and there can be no assurance that additional lines of credit or financing instruments will be available to us. A lack, or high cost, of credit could limit our ability to: obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and competition; or react in the event of an economic downturn. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to meet our capital requirements. The future effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be material and adverse to us, both in ways described above and in other ways that we do not currently foresee. Our net sales and gross profit have historically varied, making our future operating results less predictable. Our operating results are highly dependent upon our level of gross profit as a percentage of net sales, which fluctuates due to numerous factors, including changes in prices from partners, changes in the amount and timing of partner funding, volumes of purchases, changes in client mix, the relative mix of products sold during the period, general competitive conditions, and strategic product and services pricing and purchasing actions. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on anticipated net sales and the anticipated amount and timing of partner funding. Therefore, we may not be able to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected net sales shortfall, and any such inability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to stockholder litigation and regulatory proceedings related to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. In 2008, we identified errors in the Company’s accounting related to trade credits in prior periods and determined that corrections to our consolidated financial statements were required to reverse material prior period reductions of costs of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses because of the incorrect releases of certain aged trade credits. Our internal review and related activities have required the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and ongoing litigation could require further, significant expenditures and could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, if the Company is subject to adverse findings in litigation, the Company could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm its business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. There are risks associated with our international operations that are different than the risks associated with our operations in the United States, and our exposure to the risks of a global market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations. We have operation centers in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the U.S., and the United Kingdom, as well as sales offices in Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the U.S., and sales presence in Finland, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal. In the regions in which we do not currently have a physical presence, such as Africa, Japan and India, 14 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. we serve our clients through strategic relationships. In implementing our international strategy, we may face barriers to entry and competition from local companies and other companies that already have established global businesses, as well as the risks generally associated with conducting business internationally. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as: • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation or taxation; • currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in import/export laws, regulations and customs and duties; • trade restrictions; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • taxes and other restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • extended payment terms; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. In addition, until a payment history is established with clients in a new region, the likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations, on a timely basis or at all, could be less than in established markets. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves established with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. Furthermore, changes in policies and/or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other changes, higher taxation, tariffs or similar protectionist laws, currency conversion limitations or the nationalization of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of international operations. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, including intercompany transactions outside the U.S. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, or between foreign currencies, may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will become more expensive in U.S. dollars to pay expenses with foreign currencies. In addition, currency devaluation against the U.S. dollar can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits denominated in the devalued currency. We currently conduct limited hedging activities, and, to the extent not hedged, we are vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange-rate fluctuations. In addition, some currencies are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit the ability to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict with precision the effect of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operating results, and significant rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign operations to U.S. dollars. Changes in, interpretations of, or enforcement trends related to, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to pay additional tax assessments. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • changes in pre-tax income in various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • higher corporate tax rates and the availability of deductions or credits in the U.S. and elsewhere; • changes in tax laws, regulations, and/or interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; • tax effects related to purchase accounting for acquisitions; and • resolutions of issues arising from tax examinations and any related interest or penalties. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and calculations in situations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liabilities is always subject to review or examination by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of such review or examination could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. The results from various tax examinations and audits may differ from the liabilities recorded in our financial statements and may adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. We depend on certain key personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the efforts of key management teammates. The loss of one or more of these leaders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to continue to attract or retain highly qualified executive personnel or that any such executive personnel will be able to increase stockholder value. We also believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, service and technical teammates, but we cannot offer assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Further, we make a significant investment in the training of our sales account executives and services engineers. Our inability to retain such personnel or to train them either rapidly enough to meet our expanding needs or in an effective manner for quickly changing market conditions could cause a decrease in the overall quality and efficiency of our sales teammates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, and we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on copyright and trademark laws, unpatented proprietary know-how, and trade secrets and patents, as well as confidentiality, invention assignment, non-solicitation and non-competition agreements. There can be no assurance that these measures will afford us sufficient protection of our intellectual property, and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our business relationships, results of operations, financial condition and future growth prospects. In addition, our registered trademarks and trade names are subject to challenge by other rights owners. This may affect our ability to continue using those marks and names. Likewise, many businesses are actively investing in, developing and seeking protection for intellectual property in the areas of search, indexing, e-commerce and other Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of on-line business models and methods, all of which are in addition to traditional research and development efforts for IT products and application software, and non-practicing entities continue to invest in acquiring patent portfolios for the purpose of turning the portfolios into income-generating assets, whether through licensing campaigns or litigation. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of and the right to use these technologies are likely to arise in the future, and, from time to time, parties do assert various infringement claims against us, either because of our practices or because we resell allegedly infringing hardware or software, in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing inquiries, lawsuits and other communications and demands. If there is a determination that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be forced to stop selling infringing products or providing infringing services, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available, or be prevented from using the rights, which could force us to change our business practices or hardware, software or services offerings in the future. Additionally, as we increase the geographic scope of our operations and the types of services provided under the Insight brand, there is a greater likelihood that we will encounter challenges to our trade names, trademarks and service marks. We may not be able to use our principal mark without modification in all geographies for all of our offerings, and these challenges may come from either governmental agencies or other market participants. These types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholders rights agreement, as well as provisions of Delaware law and executive employment contracts, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which could have the effect (separately, or in combination) of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct of Board and stockholder meetings and election and removal of directors; and • specifying that stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. 16 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Our bylaws provide that the Company will seek stockholder approval prior to its adoption of any stockholder rights plan, unless the Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, determines that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interest of our stockholders to adopt or extend a stockholder rights plan without delay. The amendment further provides that a stockholder rights plan adopted or extended by the Board without prior stockholder approval must provide that it will expire unless ratified by the stockholders of the Company within one year of adoption. Despite these bylaw provisions, we could adopt a stockholder rights plan for a limited period of time, and such a plan could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control that could limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares. Additionally, we have employment agreements with certain officers and management teammates under which severance payments would become payable in the event of specified terminations without cause or terminations under certain circumstances after a change in control. If such persons were terminated without cause or under certain circumstances after a change of control, and the severance payments under the current employment agreements were to become payable, the severance payments would generally range from three months of a teammate’s annual salary up to two times the teammate’s annual salary and bonus. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, employment agreements or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC. 