Risk Factors Risks relating to our company and our business Our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be adversely affected if we are unable to implement the Reorganization Agreement. Our main operating asset is our ownership interest in Yuchai, and our primary source of cash flow continues to be our share of the dividends, if any, paid by Yuchai and investment earnings thereon. As a result of the agreement reached with Yuchai and its related parties pursuant to the July 2003 Agreement, we discontinued legal and arbitration proceedings initiated by us in May 2003 relating to difficulties with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In furtherance of the terms of the July 2003 Agreement, we, Yuchai and Coomber entered into the Reorganization Agreement in April 2005, as amended in December 2005, and agreed on a restructuring plan for our company intended to be beneficial to our shareholders (see “Item 4. Information on the Company — Recent Developments”). No assurance can be given as to when the corporate governance requirements relating to Yuchai and the restructuring plan in respect of our ownership of Yuchai, both as contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, will be fully implemented, or that implementation of the Reorganization Agreement will effectively resolve all of the difficulties faced by us with respect to our investment in Yuchai. In addition, the Reorganization Agreement contemplates the continued implementation of our business expansion and diversification plan adopted in February 2005. One of the goals of this business expansion and diversification plan is to reduce our financial dependence on Yuchai. Thus far, we have acquired strategic stakes in TCL and LKN (see “Item 3. Key Information” and “Item 4. Information on the Company — Recent Developments”). Nonetheless, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully expand and diversify our business. We may also not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, or secure funding to consummate such acquisitions or successfully integrate such acquired businesses within our operations. Any failure 5 Table of Contents to implement the terms of the Reorganization Agreement, including our continued expansion and diversification, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We have and may continue to experience disagreements and difficulties with the Chinese Shareholders in Yuchai. Although we own 76.4% of Yuchai’s shares, and believe we have proper legal ownership of our investment and a controlling financial interest in Yuchai, in the event there is a dispute with Yuchai’s Chinese Shareholders regarding our investment in Yuchai we may have to rely on the Chinese legal system for remedies. The Chinese legal system may not be as effective as compared to other more developed countries such as the United States (see “— Risks relating to Mainland China — The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors”). We have in the past experienced problems from time to time in obtaining assistance and cooperation of Yuchai’s Chinese Shareholders in the daily management and operation of Yuchai. We have in the past also experienced problems from time to time in obtaining the assistance and cooperation of the State Holding Company in dealing with other various matters, including the implementation of corporate governance procedures, the payment of dividends, the holding of Yuchai board meetings and the resolution of employee-related matters. Examples of these problems are described elsewhere in this Annual Report. The July 2003 Agreement and the Reorganization Agreement are intended to resolve certain issues relating to our share ownership in Yuchai and the continued corporate governance and other difficulties which we have had with respect to Yuchai. As part of the terms of the Reorganization Agreement, Yuchai agreed that it would seek the requisite shareholder approval prior to entering into any material transactions (including any agreements or arrangements with parties related to Yuchai or any of its shareholders) and that it would comply with its governance requirements. Yuchai also acknowledged and affirmed CYI’s continued rights as majority shareholder to direct the management and policies of Yuchai through Yuchai’s board of directors. However, no assurance can be given that disagreements and difficulties with Yuchai’s management and/or Yuchai’s Chinese Shareholders will not recur, including implementation of the Reorganization Agreement, corporate governance matters or related party transactions (such as, for example, the Rmb 205.0 million loan from Yuchai to Yuchai Marketing and Logistics Company, see Note 5 to our company’s Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere herein). Such disagreements and difficulties could ultimately have a material adverse impact on the company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our exposure to the Dongfeng Group has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our sales are concentrated among the Dongfeng Group, which includes the Dongfeng Automobile Company, one of the largest state-owned automobile companies in China, and other major diesel truck manufacturers controlled by or affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company. In 2005, the Dongfeng Group accounted for 19.8% of our gross sales, out of which sales to our two largest customers, Liuzhou Dongfeng Automobile and Hubei Dongfeng Automobile, accounted for 12.3%. Although we consider our relationships with the Dongfeng Group to be good, the loss of one or more of the companies within the Dongfeng Group as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In addition, we are dependent on the purchases made by the Dongfeng Group and have exposure to their liquidity arising from the high level of accounts receivable from them. We cannot assure you that the Dongfeng Group will be able to repay all the money they owe to us. In addition, the Dongfeng Group may not be able to continue purchasing the same volume of products from our company, which would reduce our overall sales volume. The Dongfeng Group also competes with us in the diesel engine market in China. Although we believe that the companies within the Dongfeng Group generally make independent purchasing decisions based on end-user preferences, we cannot assure you that truck manufacturers affiliated with the Dongfeng Automobile Company will not preferentially purchase diesel engines manufactured by companies within the Dongfeng Group over those manufactured by us. Competition in China from other diesel engine manufacturers may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. The diesel engine industry in China is highly competitive. We compete with many other domestic companies, most of which are state-owned enterprises. Some of our competitors have formed joint ventures with or have technology assistance relationships with foreign diesel engine manufacturers or foreign engine design consulting firms and use foreign technology that is more advanced than ours. We expect competition to intensify as a result of: • improvements in competitors’ products; 6 Table of Contents • increased production capacity of competitors; • increased utilization of unused capacity by competitors; and • price competition. In addition, if import restrictions on motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts are reduced, foreign competition could increase significantly. See “— Risks relating to Mainland China — The admission of China into the WTO could lead to increased foreign competition”. In the medium-duty diesel engine market, our 6108 medium-duty engine, introduced in 1997, has been competing with the 6110 medium-duty engine offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to maintain or improve our current market share or develop new markets for our medium-duty diesel engines. Based on current industry trends, there is a perceived shift in the market demand from medium-duty engines to heavy-duty diesel engines. Therefore, we would expect declining sales volume of our 6108 medium-duty engines in the coming years. In 2005, we experienced lower unit sales volume of 6108 medium-duty engines due principally to the effects of the general credit tightening by banks in China. In the heavy-duty diesel engine market, we introduced the 6112 heavy-duty engine in late 1999. Due to a delay in the commercial production of the 6112 engine; however, we were not able to benefit from the competitive advantages of an early entry into the domestic market for heavy-duty engines. Moreover, the market for heavy-duty diesel engines in China is price-sensitive. We commenced engine development of the 6L heavy-duty engine (formerly referred to as 6113) in 2003, with a rated power ranging from 280 to 350 horsepower, and we also introduced the 6M heavy-duty engine family for heavy-duty trucks and passenger buses, with a rated power ranging from 280 to 390 horsepower, in 2004. We had limited initial sales of 963 and 818 units of the 6L and 6M engines, respectively, in 2004. We sold 782 units of the 6L engines and 3,471 units of the 6M engines in 2005. We cannot assure you that our 6112, 6L or 6M heavy-duty engines will be able to compete successfully in the heavy-duty diesel engine market in China with the existing producers or any new entrants. In the light-duty diesel engine market, our 4108, 4110 and 4112 light-duty engines introduced in 2000 were met with weak consumer demand due to strong competition and a high pricing structure. The 4F diesel engine is a four-cylinder, four-stroke engines with a rated power ranging from 90 to 115 horsepower. Yuchai’s first sales of the 4F engines occurred in March 2005 and sold 4,510 units in 2005. Yuchai expects growth of this new engine to strengthen over the few years and become a significant contributor to sales growth for Yuchai. Yuchai produced 7,009 units of the 4F engines in 2005 and embarked upon major capital expenditures to increase the production capacity to 50,000 units per year by 2007. The expansion is expected to enable Yuchai to enter into light duty diesel engines market for light duty trucks and buses. Although there had been an increase in sales of our 4-Series engines in 2003, 2004 and 2005, this has been primarily due to the average selling price of the 4-Series engines being lower than the medium and heavy-duty diesel engines, thereby making the 4-Series more affordable to the buyers especially due to the credit tightening by banks in China. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to improve our market share for light-duty diesel engines, and we may, in the future, decide to cease production of one or more of the models we are currently producing. Our long-term business prospects will depend largely upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices. Our competitors in the diesel engine markets may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers. Competition in the end-use markets, mainly the truck market, may also lead to technological improvement and advances that render our current products obsolete at an earlier than expected date, in which case we may have to depreciate or impair our production equipment more rapidly than planned. Failure to introduce, or delays in the introduction of, new or improved products at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to continue our sales growth or adequately manage our growth. We have achieved consistent growth in net sales during the last four fiscal years, with net sales increasing by 22.0% to Rmb 5,582.1 million in 2004 and by 4.4% to Rmb 5,829.4 million in 2005. We cannot assure you that we can continue to increase our net sales or maintain our present level of net sales. For example, during 2005, we have increased production capacity to approximately 290,000 units after the completion of our second foundry and the new 6L and 6M heavy-duty engines lines, and we may not be able to increase our net sales commensurate with our increased levels of production capacity. Moreover, our future growth is dependent in large part on factors beyond our control, such as continued economic growth in China. 7 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly manage any future growth, including: • obtaining the necessary supplies; • hiring and training skilled production workers and management personnel; • manufacturing and delivering products for increased orders in a timely manner; • maintaining quality standards and prices; and • controlling production costs. Furthermore, we have acquired in the past, and may acquire in the future, equity interests in engine parts suppliers and logistics and marketing companies. If we are unable to effectively manage or assimilate these acquisitions, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Manufacturing”. The diesel engine business in China is dependent in large part on the performance of the Chinese economy, as well as Chinese government policy. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected by slowdowns in the Chinese economy, as well as Chinese government policies that de-emphasize the use of diesel engines. During periods of economic expansion, the demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases. Conversely, during economic slowdowns the diesel engine industry is generally adversely affected by a decline in demand. As a result, the performance of the Chinese economy will likely affect, to a significant degree, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. For example, the various austerity measures taken by the Chinese government from time to time to regulate economic growth and control inflation have in prior periods significantly weakened demand for trucks in China, and may have a similar effect in the future. In particular, austerity measures that restrict access to credit and slow the rate of fixed investment (including infrastructure development) adversely affect demand for, and production of, trucks and other commercial vehicles. These adverse market conditions, together with increased competition in the diesel engine market, result in various degrees of financial and marketing difficulties for diesel engine producers, including our company. The business and prospects for the diesel engine industry, and thus the business and prospects of our company, may also be adversely affected by Chinese government policy. For example, in 1998, the Chinese government announced a major initiative to boost consumer demand through investments in infrastructure projects and increased availability of bank credit. As a result, demand for trucks and other commercial vehicles, and thus demand for diesel engines, continued to increase from 2002 to 2004. In 2005, truck and the commercial vehicles declined by approximately 1.0%. However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not change its policy in the future to de-emphasize the use of diesel engines, and any such change will adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. For example, the Chinese government has recently announced measures to avoid overheating in certain sectors of the economy, which may include tight bank lending policies and increases in bank interest rates (see “— Risks relating to Mainland China — Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position”). If we are not able to continuously improve our existing engine products and develop new diesel engine products, we may become less competitive, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects will be adversely affected. As the Chinese automotive industry continues to develop, we will have to continuously improve our existing engine products and develop new diesel engine products in order to remain competitive. As a result, our long-term business prospects will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products at competitive prices. Future products may utilize different technologies and may require knowledge of markets that we do not currently possess. Moreover, our competitors may be able to introduce new or improved engine models that are more favorably received by customers than our products. Any failure by our company to introduce, or any delays in the introduction of, new or improved products at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. 8 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund our capital requirements, which could limit our growth potential. We believe that our cash from operations, together with any necessary borrowings, will provide sufficient financial resources to meet our projected capital and other expenditure requirements. If we have underestimated our capital requirements or overestimated our future cash flows, additional financing may be required. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to various uncertainties, including our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow, economic, political and other conditions in Mainland China, the Chinese government’s policies relating to foreign currency borrowings and the condition of the Chinese and international capital markets. If adequate capital is not available, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be adversely affected. Our controlling shareholder’s interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. Our parent company is Hong Leong Asia Ltd., or HLA, which indirectly owns 7,913,769, or 21.2%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, as well as a special share that entitles it to elect a majority of our directors. HLA controls us through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hong Leong (China) Limited, or HLC, and through HL Technology Systems Pte Ltd, or HLT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HLC. HLT owns approximately 21.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is the registered holder of our special share since December 1994. HLA also owns through another wholly-owned subsidiary, Well Summit Investments Limited, approximately 0.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock since May 2005. HLA is a member of the Hong Leong group of companies. Prior to August 2002, we were controlled by Diesel Machinery (BVI) Limited, or DML, which, until its dissolution, was a holding company controlled by HLC and was the prior owner of our special share. Through HLT’s stock ownership and various agreements among shareholders, HLA is able to effect most corporate transactions without the concurrence of any of our other shareholders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Shareholders Agreement”. In addition, our shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights. We cannot assure you that HLA’s actions will be in the best interests of our other shareholders. See also “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation — Yuchai”. We may experience a change of control as a result of offerings of shares by our controlling shareholders. As described above, HLT, a subsidiary of HLA, owns 7,831,169 shares of our common stock, as well as our special share. In March 2004, HLT and Coomber, each registered shares for offer and sale from time to time on a shelf registration statement which we filed on their behalf pursuant to a registration rights agreement. If HLT reduces its shareholding to less than 7,290,000 shares of our common stock as a result of such offering, our Bye-Laws provide that the special share held by HLT will cease to carry any rights, and HLA may as a result cease to have control over us. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — The Special Share”. We believe that our only other significant shareholder is Coomber. If HLT sells all of the shares being registered for sale by HLT in such offering, HLT will cease to own any of our shares. As a result, we cannot determine what control arrangements will arise as a result of such offering (including changes in our management arising therefrom), or assess what effect those control arrangements may have, if any, on our financial condition, results of operations, business, prospects or share price. We could be exposed to the impact of interest rates and foreign currency movements with respect to our future borrowings. In addition, a devaluation of the Renminbi will increase the Renminbi cost of repaying our foreign currency denominated indebtedness and, therefore, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We may use borrowings from time to time to supplement our working capital requirements and to finance our business expansion and diversification plans (See also “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources”). A portion of our borrowings may be structured on a floating rate basis and denominated in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. An increase in interest rates, or fluctuations in exchange rates between the Renminbi and other currencies, may increase our borrowing costs or the availability of funding and could affect our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. In particular, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be adversely affected by a devaluation of the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in Chinese government policies and to international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollar has generally been stable during the past ten years. On July 21, 2005, China reformed its foreign exchange regime by moving into a managed floating exchange rate system based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Renminbi would no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar. From that day to December 31, 2005, Renminbi appreciated about 2.5% against the U.S. dollar, and has appreciated slightly further since then. Substantially all of our operating revenue is denominated in Renminbi, while a major portion of our capital expenditures is denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros. An appreciation of Renmimbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies 9 Table of Contents would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar or other foreign currency denominated financial assets into Renmimbi, as Renmimbi is our reporting currency. Since we may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi devaluations, future movements in the exchange rate of Renminbi and other currencies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese national and local environmental protection regulations which currently impose fees for the discharge of waste substances, require the payment of fines for pollution, and provide for the closure by the Chinese government of any facility that fails to comply with orders requiring us to cease or improve upon certain activities causing environmental damage. Due to the nature of our business, we produce certain amounts of waste water, gas, and solid waste materials during the course of our production. We believe our environmental protection facilities and systems are adequate for us to comply with the existing national, provincial, and local environmental protection regulations. However, Chinese national, provincial, or local authorities may impose additional or more stringent regulations which would require additional expenditure on environmental matters or changes in our processes or systems. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover risks related to our production and other operations. The amount of our insurance coverage for our buildings and equipment is at cost which could be less than replacement value, and we have no plans to increase the coverage. The amount of our insurance coverage for our inventory is at book value which could be less than replacement value, and we also have no plans to increase this coverage. In accordance with what we believe is customary practice among industrial equipment manufacturers in China, we insure only high risk assets, such as production property and equipment and certain inventory. However, our underinsurance of other properties, facilities and inventory in accordance with this Chinese practice exposes us to substantial risks so that in the event of a major accident, our insurance recovery may be inadequate. We do not currently carry third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. We also do not carry business interruption insurance as such coverage is not customary in China. Losses incurred or payments required to be made by us which are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. The market price could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • our interim operating results; • the public’s reaction to our press releases and announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us, our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • operating and stock price performance of our competitors or other companies that investors may deem comparable; • changes in general economic conditions; • future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur; • the announcement by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition; and • increases in labor and other costs. Recent market activity of our stock price on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, has been unpredictable. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing” below. We cannot assure you that such volatility in the trading price and volume for our shares will stabilize in the future. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price. 10 Table of Contents Risks relating to Mainland China Substantially all of our assets are located in Mainland China, and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in Mainland China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in Mainland China. The economic system of Mainland China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government investment, the level of development, control of capital investment, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Adverse changes in the economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy and a higher level of management autonomy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress, but the growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Economic growth has also been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese government has implemented various policies from time to time to restrain the rate of such economic growth, control inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. For example, the Chinese government has announced that it is considering introducing measures on certain sectors to avoid overheating of the economy, which may include tighter bank lending policies, increases in bank interest rates, and measures to curb speculation. In addition, the Chinese government has also in the past attempted to control inflation by controlling the prices of basic commodities. Severe measures or other actions by the Chinese government, such as placing additional controls on the prices of diesel and diesel-using products, could restrict our business operations and adversely affect our financial position. Although we believe that the economic reforms and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese government will continue to have a positive effect in the longer term on economic development in Mainland China and that we will continue to benefit in the longer term from these policies and measures, these policies and measures may, from time to time, be modified or reversed. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in Mainland China, in the policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations in Mainland China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China and in infrastructure investment in Mainland China. These developments could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business, by reducing the demand for our products, for example. Adverse economic developments in China or elsewhere in the Asian region could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. Since the late 1990s, many Asian countries have experienced significant changes in economic conditions, including, for example, substantial depreciation in currency exchange rates, increased interest rates, reduced economic growth rates, corporate bankruptcies, volatility in the market values of shares listed on stock exchanges, decreases in foreign currency turnover and government-imposed austerity measures. To date, China’s economy has generally been affected to a lesser extent than most other major Asian countries. However, we cannot assure you that China’s economy will not suffer more serious difficulties in the future. Demand for trucks, construction machinery and other applications of diesel engines generally increases during periods of economic expansion and decreases during periods of economic slowdown. In the event that adverse economic developments occur in China, our sales may decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could therefore suffer. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general including, for example, with respect to corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. Legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in Mainland China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties which may limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. At the National People’s Congress held in March 2006, the Chinese government confirmed it intends to continue to implement a prudent fiscal and monetary policy so as not to over stimulate domestic demand. The Chinese government has also on various occasions reiterated its policy of furthering reforms in the socialist market economy and to increase the wealth of the rural population 11 Table of Contents through development and subsidies programs. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have an adverse effect on business conditions in China generally or on our business in particular. We may not freely convert Renminbi into foreign currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our foreign currency requirements or to pay dividends to shareholders. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are generated by our Chinese operating subsidiary and are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our capital expenditures and indebtedness is, or in the future may be, denominated in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment, except with the prior approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, as a foreign invested enterprise, may purchase foreign currency without the approval of SAFE for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends, by providing commercial documents evidencing these transactions. Our Chinese operating subsidiary may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a cap approved by SAFE) to satisfy foreign currency liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, therefore, may not be able to obtain sufficient foreign currency to satisfy its foreign currency requirements to pay dividends to us for our use in making any future dividend payments or to satisfy other foreign currency payment requirements. Foreign currency transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from SAFE. This could affect our Chinese operating subsidiary’s ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. The admission of China into the WTO could lead to increased foreign competition. As a result of China becoming a member of the WTO, import restrictions on both motor vehicle components, including diesel engines and motor vehicles, are expected to be gradually reduced. The WTO also requires China to lower its import tariffs as a condition for membership. Reduced import restrictions and/or lower tariffs may lead to increased imports of foreign diesel engines and therefore lead to increased competition in the domestic diesel engine markets. Similarly, reduced import restrictions and/or lower tariffs on automobiles may affect the competition in the end-use markets of our customers and indirectly affect our sales to such customers. Currently, China is encouraging foreign investments into the motor vehicle engine manufacturing industry. Outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the bird flu, in various parts of China and other countries may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. In 2003, several countries, including China, experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which severely restricted the level of economic activity in affected areas, including Beijing and Guangdong Province. The SARS epidemic in China had an adverse impact on the sale of engines, particularly during the second and third quarters in 2003. Although this SARS outbreak was brought under control during 2003, there have been a number of cases reported in China and elsewhere in the Asia region since that outbreak. Most recently, an infectious strain of influenza known as the bird flu has also been reported from time to time in China, Hong Kong and other parts of Asia. Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. 