Risk Factors Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry which Impact Us The semiconductor industry is cyclical and downturns in the semiconductor industry can negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times. Downturns are typically characterized by diminished demand giving rise to production overcapacity, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, high inventory levels and reduced revenues. Downturns may be the result of industry-specific factors, such as excess capacity, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, changes in end-customer demand, and/or macroeconomic trends impacting global economies. Such macroeconomic trends relate to the semiconductor industry as a whole and not necessarily to the individual semiconductor markets to which we sell our products. The negative effects on our business from industry downturns may also be increased to the extent that such downturns are concurrent with the timing of new 5 Table of Contents increases in production capacity in our industry. We have experienced revenue volatility and market downturns in the past and expect to experience them in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Financial market crises have in the past led to a global economic recession impacting business and consumer confidence, which resulted in a precipitous decline in the demand for semiconductor products. As a result, our business, financial conditions and results of operations have been affected in the past. To the extent that the current economic environment worsens, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. In particular, economic downturns affecting the semiconductor industry may result in a variety of risks to our business, including: • significant declines in sales; • significant reductions in selling prices; • significant underutilization of manufacturing capacity; • significant deterioration of our gross margins, profitability and net cash flow; • increased volatility and/or declines in our share price; • increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • delays in, or curtailment of, purchasing decisions by our customers or potential customers either as a result of overall economic uncertainty or as a result of their inability to access the liquidity necessary to engage in purchasing initiatives or new product development; • closure of wafer fabrication plants (“fabs”) and various restructuring plans; • lower valuations of our equity-method investments; • increased credit risk associated with our customers or potential customers, particularly those that may operate in industries most affected by the economic downturn; and • impairment of goodwill or other assets. We may not be able to match our production capacity to demand. As a result of the cyclicality and volatility of the semiconductor industry, it is difficult to predict future developments in the markets we serve, making it hard to estimate requirements for production capacity. If markets do not perform as we have anticipated, we risk under-utilization of our facilities or having insufficient capacity to meet customer demand or the manufacturing of obsolete inventories. The net increase of manufacturing capacity, defined as the difference between capacity additions and capacity reductions, may exceed demand requirements, leading to overcapacity and price erosion. If the semiconductor market does not grow as we anticipated when making investments in production capacity, we risk overcapacity. In addition, if demand for our products is lower than expected, this may result in write-offs of inventories and losses on products, and could require us to undertake restructuring measures that may involve significant charges to our earnings. In the past, overcapacity and cost optimization have led us to close manufacturing facilities that used more mature process technologies and, as a result, to incur significant impairment and restructuring charges and other related closure costs. Furthermore, during certain periods, we have also experienced an increasing demand in certain market segments and product technologies, which has led to a shortage of capacity and an increase in the lead times of our delivery to customers. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — Impairment, restructuring charges and other related closure costs”. Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense, and we may not be able to compete successfully if our product design technologies, process technologies and products do not meet market requirements or if we are unable to obtain the necessary IP. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the following characteristics: • price; • technical performance; 6 Table of Contents • product features; • product system compatibility; • product design and technology; • timely introduction of new products; • product availability; • process technology; • manufacturing yields; and • sales and technical support. Given the intense competition in the semiconductor industry, if our products are not selected based on any of the above factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. Similarly, many of our competitors also offer a large variety of products. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and/or more focused research and development (“R&D”) resources than we do. If these competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing products that compete with ours, we may not be able to compete successfully. Any consolidation among our competitors could also enhance their product offerings, manufacturing efficiency and financial resources, further strengthening their competitive position. As we are a supplier of a broad range of products, we are required to make significant investments in R&D across our product portfolio in order to remain competitive. Many of the resulting products that we market have short life cycles, with some being one year or less. Economic conditions may impair our ability to maintain our current level of R&D investments and, therefore, we may need to become more focused in our R&D investments across our broad range of product lines. This could significantly impair our ability to remain a viable competitor in the product areas where our competitors’ R&D investments are higher than ours and lead us to reconsider our participation in certain markets which we may no longer consider either profitable or strategic. We regularly devote substantial resources to winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “product design wins”, to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment and products. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures, with no guarantee of winning or generating revenue. Delays in developing new products with anticipated technological advances or in commencing volume shipments of new products as well as failure to win new design projects for customers may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that new products, if introduced, will gain market acceptance or will not be adversely affected by new technological changes or new product announcements from other competitors that may have greater efficiency, focus or financial resources. Because we typically focus on only a few customers in a product area, the loss of a design win can sometimes result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. This can result in lost sales and could hurt our position in future competitive selection processes because we may be perceived as not being a technology or industry leader. We have recently experienced this phenomenon in our Wireless business. Even after obtaining a product design win from one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of our customers’ or our lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a major change, delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue at the time of such change, delay or cancellation. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their own products, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. We also regularly incur costs to develop IP internally or acquire it from third parties without any guarantee of realizing the anticipated value of such expenditures if our competitors develop technologies that are more accepted than ours, or if market demand does not materialize as anticipated. In addition to amortization expenses relating to purchased IP, the value of these assets may be subject to impairment with associated charges being made to our Consolidated Financial Statements. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. There is no assurance that our IP purchases will be successful and will not lead to impairments and associated charges. 7 Table of Contents The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry may lead to erosion of our market share, impacting our capacity to compete and which could require us to restructure. We are continuously considering various measures to improve our competitive position and product portfolio. In the past, our sales have, at times, increased at a slower pace than the semiconductor industry as a whole and our market share has declined, even in relation to the markets we served, in particular in the Wireless market. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or grow our market share if we are unable to accelerate product innovation, identify new applications for our products, extend our customer base, realize manufacturing improvements and/or otherwise control our costs. In recent years the major growth of the semiconductor industry has been in Asia, supported also by lower cost production and resulting in a more competitive environment. We may also incur losses of market share if we are unable to take the required measures to improve our cost structure and competitiveness in the semiconductor market, such as seeking more competitive sources of production, discontinuing certain product families or performing additional restructurings, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. The semiconductor industry may also be impacted by changes in the political, social or economic environment, including as a result of military conflict, social unrest and/or terrorist activities, as well as natural events such as severe weather, health risks, epidemics or earthquakes in the countries in which we, our key customers and our suppliers, operate. We may face greater risks due to the international nature of our business, including in the countries where we, our customers or our suppliers operate, such as: • negative economic developments in global economies and instability of foreign governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks or civil unrest; • epidemics such as disease outbreaks, pandemics and other health related issues; • changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment, including through the imposition of new constraints on investment and trade; and • varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies. Risks Related to Our Operations Market dynamics are driving us to a strategic repositioning, which has led us to enter into significant joint ventures. We have recently undertaken several new initiatives to reposition our business, both through divestitures and new investments. Our strategies to improve our results of operations and financial condition led us, and may in future lead us, to make significant acquisitions of businesses that we believe to be complementary to our own, or to divest ourselves of activities that we believe do not serve our longer term business plans. In addition, certain regulatory approvals for potential acquisitions may require the divestiture of business activities. Our potential acquisition strategies depend in part on our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets, finance their acquisition and obtain required regulatory and other approvals. Our potential divestiture strategies depend in part on our ability to compete and to identify the activities in which we should no longer engage, and then determine and execute appropriate methods to divest of them. In 2009, following the creation in August 2008 of ST-NXP Wireless, a joint venture combining our wireless business with that of NXP Semiconductor, we merged ST-NXP with Ericsson Mobile Platforms (“EMP”), thereby forming ST-Ericsson. The integration process is long and complex, compounded by a rapidly changing market moving from chipsets to platforms, combining advanced solutions with both hardware and software features, and has triggered a significant amount of costs. Furthermore, it has proven more challenging than expected given the change in the business of one of their largest customers and its evolving plans. There is no assurance that we will be successful or that the joint venture will produce the planned operational and strategic benefits or that the new products developed by ST-Ericsson will meet or satisfy customer demand. For a more detailed discussion of specific risks related to the ST-Ericsson joint venture see “— ST-Ericsson’s shift from legacy portfolio to the new product roadmap has proven more challenging than expected resulting in declining revenues and an increase in operating losses”. We also may consider from time to time entering into joint ventures whose businesses may not be specific to the semiconductor industry. For example, in 2010, a joint venture named “3Sun” was established by us with Enel Green Power (“Enel”) and Sharp. In 2011, the 3Sun joint venture began manufacturing photovoltaic panels to be sold to Enel and Sharp. 8 Table of Contents We are constantly monitoring our product portfolio and cannot exclude that additional steps in this repositioning process may be required; further, we cannot assure that any strategic repositioning of our business, including executed and possible future acquisitions, dispositions or joint ventures, will be successful and may not result in further impairment and associated charges. Acquisitions and divestitures involve a number of risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the risk that we may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or teams we acquire with our culture and strategies on a timely basis or at all, and the risk that we may be required to record charges related to the goodwill or other long-term assets associated with the acquired businesses. Changes in our expectations due to changes in market developments that we cannot foresee have in the past resulted in our writing off amounts associated with the goodwill of acquired companies, and future changes may require similar further write-offs in future periods. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the full scope of the benefits we expect from a particular acquisition, divestiture or investment. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing businesses and any acquired businesses. In addition, the financing of future acquisitions may negatively impact our financial condition and could require us to need additional funding from the capital markets. Other risks associated with acquisitions and the activities of our joint ventures include: • a substantial part of our business is run through a joint venture, ST-Ericsson, whose management acts independently pursuant to the joint venture’s rules of governance; • our ability to plan and anticipate business and financial results relies, for that portion of our business, on the joint venture’s management ability to plan and anticipate business and financial results and their timely and accurate reporting to us; • diversion of management’s attention; • insufficient IP rights or potential inaccuracies in the ownership of key IP; • assumption of potential liabilities, disclosed or undisclosed, associated with the business acquired, which liabilities may exceed the amount of indemnification available from the seller; • potential inaccuracies in the financials of the business acquired; • that the businesses acquired will not maintain the quality of products and services that we have historically provided; • whether we are able to attract and retain qualified management for the acquired business; • whether we are able to retain customers of the acquired entity; and • social issues or costs linked to restructuring plans. Other risks associated with our divestiture activities include: • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of activities and technologies that may have complemented our remaining businesses or operations; • loss of important services provided by key employees that are assigned to divested activities; and • social issues or restructuring costs linked to divestitures and closures. These and other factors may cause a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ST-Ericsson’s shift from legacy portfolio to the new product roadmap has proven more challenging than expected resulting in declining revenues and an increase in operating losses. For ST-Ericsson, managing the wireless joint venture’s shift from a legacy portfolio to the new product roadmap has proven more challenging than expected. ST-Ericsson is now in a crucial phase focusing on improving execution, lowering its break-even point and reviewing its roadmap to sustainable profitability. The changes in the business environment at a large customer during 2011 have reduced demand for legacy products and are delaying the ramp of new products. As ST-Ericsson does not yet have an adequate level of sales, the company’s path to improve its financial performance is expected to take longer. ST-Ericsson’s recently 9 Table of Contents appointed Chief Executive Officer and leadership team have been requested by the parent companies to review its strategic and financial plans. As a result of this ongoing strategic review, we may consider additional actions to solidify and accelerate ST-Ericsson’s path to profitability. In such an event, or in case of a significant worsening of business prospects, the value of ST-Ericsson for us could decrease to a value significantly lower than the current carrying amount of ST-Ericsson on our books of approximately $1.9 billion; and we may be required to take an impairment charge. We will continuously monitor ST-Ericsson’s business evolution and we will evaluate their progress on a regular basis. Our Wireless segment revenues decreased in 2011 to $1,552 million or approximately 30% less than the $2,219 million registered in 2010. This significant decline in revenues led to a sharp increase in operating losses, which reached $812 million in 2011 compared to $483 million in 2010. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs adversely impact our results. In less favorable industry environments, we are driven to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures and we are also faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. Reduced average selling prices and demand for our products both adversely affect our results of operations. Since the semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs, we are not always able to cut our total costs in line with revenue declines. Furthermore, in periods of lower customer demand for our products, our fabs do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with the excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales as unused capacity charges. Additionally, a significant number of our manufacturing facilities are located in France and Italy and their cost of operation could be significantly affected by the rise of the Euro against the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. While markets improved in 2010, the difficult conditions experienced in 2011 had a significant effect on the capacity utilization and related manufacturing efficiencies of our fabs, generating significant unused capacity charges in 2011, which led to a significant decline in our gross margin. We cannot guarantee that such market conditions, and increased competition in our core product markets, will not lead to further price erosion, lower revenue growth rates and lower margins. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry has led to industry consolidation and we may face even more intense competition from newly merged competitors or we may seek to acquire a competitor in order to improve our market share. The intensely competitive environment of the semiconductor industry and the high costs associated with developing marketable products and manufacturing technologies as well as investing in production capabilities may lead to further consolidation in the industry. Such consolidation can allow a company to further benefit from economies of scale, provide improved or more diverse product portfolios and increase the size of its serviceable market. For example, in 2011, Texas Instruments acquired National Semiconductors, thus strengthening their position in markets in which we compete. Our financial results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, principally in the value of the U.S. dollar. A significant variation of the value of the U.S. dollar against the principal currencies that have a material impact on us (primarily the Euro, but also certain other currencies of countries where we have operations) could result in a favorable impact on our net income in the case of an appreciation of the U.S. dollar, or a negative impact on our net income if the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to these currencies. Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations because our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, in which we receive the major portion of our revenues, while, more importantly, we incur a significant portion of our costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Certain significant costs incurred by us, such as a significant part of our manufacturing costs, selling, general and administrative expenses, and R&D expenses, and — in certain jurisdictions — depreciation charges, are incurred in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which our operations are located, which mainly includes the Euro zone. Our effective average exchange rate, which reflects actual exchange rate levels combined with the impact of cash flow hedging programs, was $1.37 to €1.00 in 2011, compared to $1.36 to €1.00 in 2010. In order to reduce the exposure of our financial results to the fluctuations in exchange rates, our principal strategy has been to balance as much as possible the proportion of sales to our customers denominated in U.S. dollars with the amount of purchases from our suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars and to reduce the weight of the other costs, including labor costs and depreciation, denominated in Euros and in other currencies. In order to further reduce our exposure to U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuations, we have hedged certain line items on our consolidated statements of income, in particular with respect to a portion of the cost of goods sold, most of the R&D expenses and certain selling, general and administrative expenses located in the Euro zone and in Sweden. No assurance can be given that our hedging transactions will prevent us from incurring higher 10 Table of Contents Euro-denominated manufacturing costs when translated into our U.S. dollar-based accounts in the event of a weakening of the U.S. dollar. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by a negative resolution of the economic and sovereign debt crisis in Europe. The financial markets and global economic conditions have been negatively impacted by the European sovereign debt crisis that began in 2010 and has spread to several Euro zone countries, in particular Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. This resulted in a sovereign liquidity crisis, with a significant increase in the interest rates on the national debt of several Euro zone countries and the downgrading of several sovereign debt ratings, which has contributed to a general slowdown of economic growth and higher debt levels. While the full impact and duration of the current crisis cannot be assessed at this stage, we cannot exclude a potential further deterioration of economic conditions, in particular in the event of a default by certain countries. It cannot be ruled out that the default of a Euro zone member could eventually even lead to its exit from the Euro and the readoption of a national currency. We have significant operations in Europe, in particular our manufacturing activities in France, Italy and Malta, where our total net assets, equivalent to total assets less total liabilities, were approximately $4 billion as of December 31, 2011. In the event of the re-denomination of currencies of these countries, the most significant potential impact could be a material devaluation of their values against the U.S. dollar, which could lead to a significant reduction of the value of our assets when expressed in U.S. dollars. We generate significant cash flows in the ordinary course of our business and, as a result, maintain significant cash and cash equivalents with European financial institutions. As of December 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents held by financial institutions in the Euro zone totaled $1,179 million and our cash and cash equivalents held by financial institutions outside the Euro zone totaled $733 million. While we follow internal treasury guidelines to minimize concentration and the resulting risk, in the event of a major default of European sovereign debt, particularly in France or Italy, we could suffer a negative impact on our liquidity and/or be required to recognize significant losses. Furthermore, we have a significant amount of receivables relating to tax credits, refunds and funding from the governments of certain countries in the Euro zone. As of December 31, 2011, we had $366 million of long-term government receivables almost entirely from France and Italy. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event of a default of these countries, we could be required to recognize a significant loss. Finally, in the event of a further deterioration of the sovereign financial crisis, we may face difficulties obtaining sufficient financing or we may experience higher borrowing costs than those which we currently pay on our borrowings from the European Investment Bank, which is currently one of our major lenders. Because we own manufacturing facilities, our capital needs are high compared to those competitors who do not produce their own products. As a result of our choice to maintain control of a certain portion of our advanced and proprietary manufacturing technologies to better serve our customer base and to develop our strategic alliances, significant amounts of capital to maintain or upgrade our facilities could be required in the future. We monitor our capital expenditures taking into consideration factors such as trends in the semiconductor market and capacity utilization. While in the preceding three years our aggregate capital expenditures decreased, as expressed in terms of percentage of sales, our capital expenditures increased in 2011 to $1.26 billion. These expenditures were incurred to upgrade and expand the capacity of our manufacturing facilities in order to respond to increasing demand from customers and new products in certain segments, particularly for micro-electro-mechanical systems (“MEMS”) and Automotive; and to prepare for anticipated demand in Smartphone and Tablet platforms, which has not yet materialized. There is no assurance that future market demand and products required by our customers will meet our expectations. Failure to invest appropriately or in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, and results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We may also need additional funding in the coming years to finance our investments, to pursue other business combinations or to purchase other companies or technologies developed by third parties or to refinance our maturing indebtedness. In an increasingly complex and competitive environment, we may need to invest in other companies and/or in technology developed either by us or by third parties to maintain or improve our position in the market. We may also consider acquisitions to complement or expand our existing business. In addition, a portion of the 11 Table of Contents outstanding cash is devoted to redeem maturing indebtedness. Although there are no current plans to issue new debt or equity, the foregoing may also require us to issue additional debt, equity, or both; the timing and the size of any new share or bond offering would depend upon market conditions as well as a variety of factors, and any such transaction or any announcement concerning such a transaction could materially impact the market price of our common shares. If we are unable to access such capital on acceptable terms, this may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our R&D efforts are increasingly expensive and dependent on alliances, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by the failure or termination of such alliances, or failure to find new partners and/or to develop new process technologies and products. We are dependent on alliances to develop or access new technologies, particularly in light of the increasing levels of investment required for R&D activities, and there can be no assurance that these alliances will be successful. We are a member of the International Semiconductor Development Alliance (“ISDA”), a technology alliance led by IBM to develop complementary metal-on silicon oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) process technology used in semiconductor development and manufacturing for 32/28-nm and 22/20-nm nodes. This alliance also includes collaboration on IP development and platforms to speed the design of System-on-Chip (“SoC”) devices in CMOS process technologies. This alliance is set to expire at the end of 2012. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Research and Development”. We continue to believe that we can maintain proprietary R&D for derivative technology investments and share R&D business models, which are based on cooperation and alliances, for core R&D process technology if we receive adequate support from state funding, as in the case of the Crolles Nano 2012 frame agreement (the “Nano 2012 agreement”) signed by us with the French government in 2009, which includes certain conditions of employment and manufacturing capacity to be met by 2012. This, coupled with manufacturing and foundry partnerships, provides us with a number of important benefits, including the sharing of risks and costs, reductions in our own capital requirements, acquisitions of technical know-how and access to additional production capacities. In addition, it contributes to the fast acceleration of semiconductor process technology development while allowing us to lower our development and manufacturing costs. However, there can be no assurance that alliances will be successful and allow us to develop and access new technologies in due time, in a cost-effective manner and/or to meet customer demands. Certain companies develop their own process technologies, which may be more advanced than the technologies we develop through our cooperative alliances. Furthermore, if these alliances terminate before our intended goals are accomplished we may lose our investment, or incur additional unforeseen costs, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to develop or otherwise access new technologies independently, we may fail to keep pace with the rapid technology advances in the semiconductor industry, our participation in the overall semiconductor industry may decrease and we may also lose market share in the market addressed by our products. In particular, the Nano 2012 agreement will terminate in 2012 and there can be no assurance that a continuation of the program will be funded by the French administration or that a new program will be signed and at which terms it will be granted. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and annually and may differ significantly from our expectations or guidance. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability or lead to significant variability of operating results. These factors include, among others, the cyclicality of the semiconductor and electronic systems industries, capital requirements, inventory management, availability of funding, competition, new product developments, technological changes and manufacturing problems. For example, if anticipated sales or shipments do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels in a given quarter can be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, may be adversely affected. In addition, our effective tax rate currently takes into consideration certain favorable tax rates and incentives, which, in the future, may not be available to us. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. A number of other factors could lead to fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results, including: • performance of our key customers in the markets they serve; • order cancellations or reschedulings by customers; 12 Table of Contents • excess inventory held by customers leading to reduced bookings or product returns by key customers; • manufacturing capacity and utilization rates; • restructuring and impairment charges; • losses on equity-method investments; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in jurisdictions where we have activities; • IP developments; • receipt of governmental funding; • changes in distribution and sales arrangements; • failure to win new design projects; • manufacturing performance and yields; • product liability or warranty claims; • litigation; • acquisitions or divestitures; • problems in obtaining adequate raw materials or production equipment on a timely basis; • property loss or damage or interruptions to our business, including as a result of fire, natural disasters or other disturbances at our facilities or those of our customers and suppliers that may exceed the amounts recoverable under our insurance policies; • changes in the market value or yield of the financial instruments in which we invest our liquidity; and • a substantial part of our business is run through joint ventures whose management acts independently pursuant to the joint ventures’ rule of governance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, in periods of industry overcapacity or when our key customers encounter difficulties in their end markets, orders are more exposed to cancellations, reductions, price renegotiation or postponements, which in turn reduce our management’s ability to forecast the next quarter or full year production levels, revenues and margins. For these reasons and others that we may not yet have identified, our revenues and operating results may differ materially from our expectations or guidance as visibility is reduced. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Backlog”. Our business is dependent in large part on continued growth in the industries and segments into which our products are sold and on our ability to attract and retain new customers. A market decline in any of these industries or our inability to attract new customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive and expect to continue to derive significant sales from the telecommunications, consumer, computer and communication infrastructure, automotive and industrial markets. Growth of demand in these market segments has fluctuated significantly in the past, and may in the future, based on numerous factors, including: • spending levels of the market segment participants; • reduced demand resulting from a drop in consumer confidence and/or a deterioration of general economic conditions; • development of new consumer products or applications requiring high semiconductor content; • evolving industry standards; and • the rate of adoption of new or alternative technologies. We cannot predict the rate, or the extent to which, the telecommunications, consumer, computer and communication infrastructure, automotive and industrial markets will grow. In particular, a decline in these markets, coupled with a lower penetration of certain of our customers, in particular in Wireless, resulted in slower growth and a decline in demand for our products, which had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents In addition, our spending on process and product development well ahead of market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if projected industry growth rates do not materialize as forecasted. Our business is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain new customers and our ability to identify new potential, fast-growing markets. The competition for such new customers or new markets is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining new customers or be able to identify early on any new market prospects. Our failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our business is also dependent upon continuing to supply existing large customers, their business success and the fit of our product offering with their products road-map. Our customers’ products strategy may change from time to time and we have no certainty that our business, financial position and results of operations will not be affected. Disruptions in our relationships with any one of our key customers, and/or material changes in their strategy or financial condition, could adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is derived from several large customers, some of whom have entered into strategic alliances with us. As of December 31, 2011, our largest customer, the Nokia group of companies, accounted for 10.4% of our 2011 net revenues, compared to 13.9% in 2010 and 16.1% in 2009. We cannot guarantee that our largest customers will continue to book the same level of sales with us and our joint ventures that they have in the past, or will not solicit alternative suppliers or will continue to succeed in the markets they serve. Many of our key customers operate in cyclical businesses that are also highly competitive, and their own demands and market positions may vary considerably. In recent years, certain customers of the semiconductor industry have experienced consolidation. Such consolidations may impact our business in the sense that our relationships with the new entities could be either reinforced or jeopardized pursuant thereto. Our customers have in the past, and may in the future, vary order levels significantly from period to period, request postponements to scheduled delivery dates or modify their bookings. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or enhance our market share with our key customers or distributors. If we were to lose important design wins for our products with our key customers, or if any key customer or distributor were to reduce or change its bookings, seek alternate suppliers, increase its product returns or become unable or fail to meet its payment obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If customers do not purchase products made specifically for them, we may not be able to resell such products to other customers or require the customers who have ordered these products to pay a cancellation fee. Furthermore, developing industry trends, including customers’ use of outsourcing and new and revised supply chain models, may reduce our ability to forecast the purchase date for our products and evolving customer demand, thereby affecting our revenues and working capital requirements. For example, pursuant to industry developments, some of our products are required to be delivered on consignment to customer sites with recognition of revenue delayed until such moment, which must occur within a defined period of time, when the customer chooses to take delivery of our products from our consignment stock. Our operating results can also vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets incurred in the course of acquisitions, as well as to impairment of tangible assets due to changes in the business environment. Our operating results can also vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill booked pursuant to acquisitions and to the purchase of technologies and licenses from third parties. Because the market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, significant changes in the semiconductor industry, and the potential failure of our business initiatives, our future cash flows may not support the value of goodwill and other intangibles registered in our consolidated balance sheet. We are required to perform an impairment test of our goodwill on an annual basis, which is usually done in the third quarter. In addition, we are also required to assess the carrying values of intangible and tangible assets when impairment indicators exist. As a result of such tests, we could be required to book an impairment charge in our statement of income if the carrying value in our consolidated balance sheet is in excess of the fair value. The amount of any potential impairment is not predictable as it depends on our estimates of projected market trends, results of operations and cash flows. Any potential impairment, if required, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We performed our annual impairment test in the third quarter of 2011 and incurred no charge as the value generated by all of our product segments exceeded the carrying value of their assets. In addition, we performed 14 Table of Contents an impairment test of our Wireless assets on a quarterly basis, as a result of the ongoing losses suffered in that segment, and concluded that no charges are required based on the latest available strategic plan of our joint venture ST-Ericsson. The factors used in assessing fair values for such assets are based on the joint venture’s strategic plan developed by the ST-Ericsson management, which is approved by its board of directors. The estimates used in such analyses are subject to change due to the ongoing uncertainty of current market conditions, which may continue to negatively impact our market value, or cause ST-Ericsson to miss its strategic objectives. If market and economic conditions further deteriorate, this could result in future non-cash impairment charges against income. Further impairment charges could also result from new valuations triggered by changes in our product portfolio or strategic transactions. See “— ST-Ericsson’s shift from legacy portfolio to the new product roadmap has proven more challenging than expected resulting in declining revenues and an increase in operating losses”. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials and certain equipment, we may experience supply disruptions if suppliers interrupt supply, increase prices or experience material adverse changes in their financial condition. Our ability to meet our customers’ demand to manufacture our products depends upon obtaining adequate supplies of quality raw materials on a timely basis. A number of materials are available only from a limited number of suppliers, or only from a limited number of suppliers in a particular region. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as silicon wafers, lead frames, mold compounds, ceramic packages and chemicals and gases from a number of suppliers on a just-in-time basis, as well as other materials such as copper and gold whose prices on the world markets have fluctuated significantly during recent periods. Although supplies for the raw materials we currently use are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In addition, the costs of certain materials, such as copper and gold, have increased due to market pressures and we may not be able to pass on such cost increases to the prices we charge to our customers. We also purchase semiconductor manufacturing equipment from a limited number of suppliers and because such equipment is complex it is difficult to replace one supplier with another or to substitute one piece of equipment for another. In addition, suppliers may extend lead times, limit our supply or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Furthermore, suppliers tend to focus their investments on providing the most technologically advanced equipment and materials and may not be in a position to address our requirements for equipment or materials of older generations. Shortages of supplies have in the past impacted and may in the future impact the semiconductor industry, in particular with respect to silicon wafers due to increased demand and decreased production, which we experienced as a result of certain natural disasters that have occurred recently. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Our quarterly or annual results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials or equipment in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials or problems with the quality of these raw materials. If our outside contractors fail to perform, this could adversely affect our ability to exploit growth opportunities. We currently use outside contractors, both for front and back-end activities, and it is likely that we will increasingly rely on foundries for a growing portion of our needs. The foundries we contract with are primarily manufacturers of high-speed complementary metal-on silicon oxide semiconductor (“HCMOS”) wafers and nonvolatile memory technology, while our back-end subcontractors engage in the assembly and testing of a wide variety of packaged devices. If our outside suppliers are unable to satisfy our demand, or experience manufacturing difficulties, delays or reduced yields, our results of operations and ability to satisfy customer demand could suffer. Our internal manufacturing costs include depreciation and other fixed costs, while costs for products outsourced are based on market conditions. Prices for these services also vary depending on capacity utilization rates at our suppliers, quantities demanded, product technology and geometry. Furthermore, these outsourcing costs can vary materially from quarter to quarter and, in cases of industry shortages, they can increase significantly further, negatively impacting our gross margin. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to impurities, disruptions or inefficient implementation of production changes that can significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and increasingly costly equipment and are continuously being modified or maintained in an effort to improve yields and product performance. 15 Table of Contents Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields, interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. As system complexity and production changes have increased and sub-micron technology has become more advanced using ever finer geometries, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become even more demanding. Although in the past few years we have significantly enhanced our manufacturing capability in terms of efficiency, precision and capacity, we have from time to time experienced bottlenecks and production difficulties that have caused delivery delays and quality control problems, as is common in the semiconductor industry. We cannot guarantee that we will not experience bottlenecks, production or transition difficulties in the future. In addition, during past periods of high demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities have operated at high capacity, which has led to production constraints. Furthermore, if production at a manufacturing facility is interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, or customers may purchase products from other suppliers. In either case, the loss of revenue and damage to the relationship with our customer could be significant. Furthermore, we periodically transfer production equipment between production facilities and must ramp up and test such equipment once installed in the new facility before it can reach its optimal production level. We depend on patents to protect our rights to our technology and may face claims of infringing the IP rights of others. We depend on our ability to obtain patents and other IP rights covering our products and their design and manufacturing processes. We intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions relating to product designs and manufacturing processes. However, the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and we cannot guarantee that we will receive patents from currently pending or future applications. Even if patents are issued, they may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some countries. Competitors may also develop technologies that are protected by patents and other IP and therefore either be unavailable to us or be made available to us subject to adverse terms and conditions. We have in the past used our patent portfolio to negotiate broad patent cross-licenses with many of our competitors enabling us to design, manufacture and sell semiconductor products, without fear of infringing patents held by such competitors. We may not, however, in the future be able to obtain such licenses or other rights to protect necessary IP on favorable terms for the conduct of our business, and such failure may adversely impact our results of operations. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications alleging possible infringement of patents and other IP rights. Some of those claims are made by so called non-practicing entities against which we are unable to assert our own broad patent portfolio to lever licensing terms and conditions. Competitors with whom we do not have patent cross-license agreements may also develop technologies that are protected by patents and other IP rights and which may be unavailable to us or only made available on unfavorable terms and conditions. We may therefore become involved in costly litigation brought against us regarding patents, mask works, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We are currently involved in several lawsuits, including litigation before the U.S. International Trade Commission (“ITC”). See “Item 8. Financial Information — Legal Proceedings”. IP litigation and specifically litigation in the ITC may also involve our customers who in turn may seek indemnification from us should we not prevail and/or who may decide to curtail their orders for those of our products over which claims have been asserted before the ITC. Such lawsuits may therefore have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be forced to stop producing substantially all or some of our products or to license the underlying technology upon economically unfavorable terms and conditions or we may be required to pay damages for the prior use of third party IP and/or face an injunction. The outcome of IP litigation, given the complex technical issues it involves, is inherently uncertain and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and other specialized technical personnel. Furthermore, litigation can result in significant costs and, if not resolved in our favor, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may be faced with product liability or warranty claims. Despite our corporate quality programs and commitment, our products may not in each case comply with specifications or customer requirements. Although our general practice, in line with industry standards, is to contractually limit our liability to the repair, replacement or refund of defective products, warranty or product liability claims could result in significant expenses relating to compensation payments or other indemnification to maintain good customer relationships if a customer threatens to terminate or suspend our relationship pursuant to a defective product supplied by us. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in maintaining our 16 Table of Contents relationships with customers with whom we incur quality problems, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, we could incur significant costs and liabilities if litigation occurs to defend against such claims and if damages are awarded against us. In addition, it is possible for one of our customers to recall a product containing one of our parts. Costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty claims or product recalls may adversely affect our results of operations. There is no guarantee that our insurance policies will be available or adequate to protect us against such claims. Some of our production processes and materials are environmentally sensitive, which could expose us to liability and increase our costs due to environmental regulations and laws or because of damage to the environment. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations wherever we operate that govern, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemicals, gases and other hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes, air emissions, waste water discharges, waste disposal, as well as the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination. A number of environmental requirements in the European Union, including some that have only recently come into force, affect our business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Environmental Matters”. These requirements are partly under revision by the European Union and their potential impacts cannot currently be determined in detail. Such regulations, however, could adversely affect our manufacturing costs or product sales by requiring us to acquire costly equipment, materials or greenhouse gas allowances, or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our manufacturing processes or waste and emission disposal processes. We are not in a position to quantify specific costs, in part because these costs are part of our business process. Furthermore, environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. As with other companies engaged in similar activities, any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, chemicals or hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Any specific liabilities we identify as probable would be reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. To date, we have not identified any such specific liabilities and have therefore not booked reserves for any specific environmental risks. Loss of key employees could hurt our competitive position. As is common in the semiconductor industry, success depends to a significant extent upon our key senior executives and R&D, engineering, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support and other personnel. Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of the services of any of these key personnel without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We operate in many jurisdictions with highly complex and varied tax regimes. Changes in tax rules or the outcome of tax assessments and audits could cause a material adverse effect on our results. We operate in many jurisdictions with highly complex and varied tax regimes. Changes in tax rules or the outcome of tax assessments and audits could have a material adverse effect on our results in any particular quarter. Our tax rate is variable and depends on changes in the level of operating profits within various local jurisdictions and on changes in the applicable taxation rates of these jurisdictions, as well as changes in estimated tax provisions due to new events. We currently receive certain tax benefits in some countries, and these benefits may not be available in the future due to changes in the local jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate could increase in the coming years. In line with our strategic repositioning of our product portfolio, the acquisition or divestiture of businesses in different jurisdictions could materially affect our effective tax rate in future periods. We evaluate our deferred tax asset position and the need for a valuation allowance on a regular basis. This assessment requires the exercise of judgment on the part of our management with respect to, among other things, benefits that could be realized from available tax strategies and future taxable income, as well as other positive and negative factors. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to generate future taxable income that is sufficient to utilize loss carry-forwards or tax credits before their expiration or our ability to implement prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The recorded amount of total deferred tax assets could be reduced, resulting in a decrease in our total assets and, consequently, in our 17 Table of Contents stockholders’ equity, if our estimates of projected future taxable income and benefits from available tax strategies are reduced as a result of a change in management’s assessment or due to other factors, or if changes in current tax regulations are enacted that impose restrictions on the timing or extent of our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carry-forwards in the future. A valuation allowance was recorded in the 2011 accounts in relation to part of ST-Ericsson’s net operating losses. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Overview — Critical Accounting Policies Using Significant Estimates — Income Taxes”. A change in the estimated amounts and the character of the future result may require additional valuation allowances, resulting in a negative impact on our income statement. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising out of tax claims, assessment of uncertain tax positions and provisions for specifically identified income tax exposures. There are currently tax audits ongoing in certain of our jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in resolving potential tax claims that arose or can arise from these audits. We have booked provisions on the basis of the best current understanding; however, we could be required to book additional provisions in future periods for amounts that cannot be assessed at this stage. Our failure to do so and/or the need to increase our provisions for such claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are required to prepare financial statements under IFRS in addition to Consolidated Financial Statements under U.S. GAAP, and such dual reporting may impair the clarity of our financial reporting. We use U.S. GAAP as our primary set of reporting standards. Applying U.S. GAAP in our financial reporting is designed to ensure the comparability of our results to those of our competitors, as well as the continuity of our reporting, thereby providing our investors with a clear understanding of our financial performance. As we are incorporated in The Netherlands and our shares are listed on Euronext Paris and on the Borsa Italiana, we are subject to EU regulations requiring us to also report our results of operations and financial statements using IFRS. As a result of the obligation to report our financial statements under IFRS, we prepare our results of operations using both U.S. GAAP and IFRS, which are currently not consistent. Such dual reporting can materially increase the complexity of our investor communications. Our financial condition and results of operations reported in accordance with IFRS will differ from our financial condition and results of operations reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which could give rise to confusion in the marketplace. We are continuing to consider whether to shift our primary accounting standards to IFRS at some point in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting fails to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it may have a materially adverse effect on our stock price. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules that require us to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, we must also include an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have successfully completed our Section 404 assessment and received the auditors’ attestation as of December 31, 2011. However, in the future, if we fail to complete a favorable assessment from our management or to obtain an “unqualified” auditors’ attestation, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or may suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to an adverse effect on our stock price. The lack of public funding available to us, changes in existing public funding programs or demands for repayment may increase our costs and impact our results of operations. Like many other manufacturers operating in Europe, we benefit from governmental funding for R&D expenses and industrialization costs (which include some of the costs incurred to bring prototype products to the production stage), as well as from incentive programs for the economic development of underdeveloped regions. Public funding may also be characterized by grants and/or low-interest financing for capital investment and/or tax credit investments. We have entered into public funding agreements in France and Italy, which set forth the parameters for state support to us under selected programs. These funding agreements require compliance with EU regulations and approval by EU authorities. These agreements set forth certain conditions relating to the nature and amount of the investments, as well as employment. In 2009, we entered into the Crolles Nano 2012 funding program, which will expire at the end of 2012. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Public Funding”. 18 Table of Contents Furthermore, we receive a material amount of R&D tax credits in France, which is directly linked to the amount spent for our R&D activities. In 2011, we booked $159 million, which reflected amounts relating to our R&D activities in France during 2011. In both 2010 and 2009, the amount was $146 million. We rely on receiving funds on a timely basis pursuant to the terms of the funding agreements. However, the funding of programs in France and Italy is subject to the annual appropriation of available resources and compatibility with the fiscal provisions of their annual budgets, which we do not control, as well as to our continuing compliance with all eligibility requirements. If we are unable to receive anticipated funding on a timely basis, or if existing government-funded programs were curtailed or discontinued, or if we were unable to fulfill our eligibility requirements, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There is no assurance that any alternative funding would be available, or that, if available, it could be provided in sufficient amounts or on similar terms. The application for and implementation of such grants often involves compliance with extensive regulatory requirements including, in the case of subsidies to be granted within the EU, notification to the European Commission by the member state making the contemplated grant prior to disbursement and receipt of required EU approval. In addition, compliance with project-related ceilings on aggregate subsidies defined under EU law often involves highly complex economic evaluations. Furthermore, public funding arrangements are generally subject to annual and project-by-project reviews and approvals. If we fail to meet applicable formal or other requirements, we may not be able to receive the relevant subsidies, or under certain circumstances, may be required to refund previously received amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we do not receive anticipated funding, this may lead us to curtail or discontinue existing projects, which may lead to further impairments. In addition, if we do not complete projects for which public funding has been approved, or meet certain objectives set forth in funding programs such as in the case of the Nano 2012 agreement signed by us with the French government in 2009, which includes certain conditions of employment and manufacturing capacity to be met by 2012, we may be required to repay any advances received for ongoing milestones, which may lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, the Nano 2012 agreement will terminate in 2012 and there can be no assurance that a continuation of the program will be funded by the French administration or that a new program will be signed and at which terms it will be granted. In addition, the European Commission has initiated an inquiry into certain public funding made by the Italian authorities in connection with our former M6 Plant in Catania, Italy. In the event of an adverse determination by the European Commission, we could be required to refund all or a portion of the public funding previously received in connection with the M6 Plant. See “Item 4. Information About the Company — Public Funding”. The interests of our controlling shareholders, which are in turn controlled respectively by the French and Italian governments, may conflict with investors’ interests. We have been informed that as of December 31, 2011, STMicroelectronics Holding II B.V. (“ST Holding II”), a wholly owned subsidiary of STMicroelectronics Holding N.V. (“ST Holding”), owned 250,704,754 shares, or approximately 27.5%, of our issued common shares. ST Holding is therefore effectively in a position to control actions that require shareholder approval, including corporate actions, the election of our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board and the issuance of new shares or other securities. On December 21, 2011, the Board of ST Holding met and decided to propose a merger of ST Holding II into ST Holding at the next shareholders’ meetings of ST Holding and ST Holding II, such merger to be completed by the end of June 2012 with retroactive effect as of January 1, 2012. We have also been informed that the shareholders’ agreement among ST Holding’s shareholders (the “STH Shareholders’ Agreement”), to which we are not a party, governs relations between our current indirect shareholders, Commissariat à l’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives (“CEA”), Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement (“FSI”), which replaced Areva in the STH Shareholders’ Agreement in March 2011, FT1CI, a company jointly controlled by CEA and FSI, and the Italian Ministero dell’Economia e delle Finanze (the “Ministry of the Economy and Finance”). Each of these shareholders is ultimately controlled by the French or Italian government. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders”. The STH Shareholders’ Agreement includes provisions requiring the unanimous approval by shareholders of ST Holding before ST Holding can make any decision with respect to certain actions to be taken by us. Furthermore, as permitted by our Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board has specified selected actions by the Managing Board that require the approval of the Supervisory Board. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees”. These requirements for the prior approval of various actions to be taken by us and our subsidiaries may give rise to a conflict of interest between our interests and investors’ interests, on the one hand, and the interests of the individual shareholders approving such actions, on the other. Our ability to issue new 19 Table of Contents shares or other securities may be limited by the existing shareholders’ desire to maintain their proportionate shareholding at a certain minimum level and our ability to buy back shares may be limited by our existing shareholders due to a Dutch law that may require shareholders that own 30% or more of our voting rights to launch a tender offer for our outstanding shares. Dutch law, however, requires members of our Supervisory Board to act independently in supervising our management and to comply with applicable corporate governance standards. Our shareholder structure and our preference shares may deter a change of control. We have an option agreement (the “Option Agreement”) with an independent foundation, Stichting Continuiteït ST (the “Stichting”), whereby we could issue a maximum of 540,000,000 preference shares in the event of actions considered hostile by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board, such as a creeping acquisition or an unsolicited offer for our common shares, which are unsupported by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board and which the board of the Stichting determines would be contrary to the interests of our Company, our shareholders and our other stakeholders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements — Preference Shares”. No preference shares have been issued to date. The effect of the issuance of preference shares pursuant to the Option Agreement may be to deter potential acquirers from effecting an unsolicited acquisition resulting in a change of control or otherwise taking actions considered hostile by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board. In addition, our shareholders have authorized us to issue additional capital within the limits of the authorization by our shareholders’ meeting, subject to the requirements of our Articles of Association, without the need to seek a specific shareholder resolution for each capital increase. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements — Preference Shares”. Our direct or indirect shareholders may sell our existing common shares or issue financial instruments exchangeable into our common shares at any time. In addition, substantial issuances by us of new common shares or convertible bonds could cause our common share price to drop significantly. The STH Shareholders’ Agreement, to which we are not a party, between respectively CEA, FSI, FT1CI, our French Shareholder controlled by FSI and CEA, and the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, our Italian shareholder, permits our respective French and Italian indirect shareholders to cause ST Holding to dispose of its stake in us at any time from their current level, thereby reducing the current level of their respective indirect interests in our common shares. Such disposals could be made by way of sales of our shares or through issuance of financial instruments exchangeable for our shares, equity swaps or structured finance transactions. The details of the STH Shareholders’ Agreement, as reported by its parties, are further explained in “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders”. An announcement with respect to one or more of such dispositions could be made at any time without our advance knowledge. Sales of our common shares or issue of financial instruments exchangeable into our common shares or any announcements concerning a potential sale by ST Holding, FT1CI, FSI, CEA or the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, could materially impact the market price of our common shares depending on the timing and size of such sale, market conditions as well as a variety of factors. In addition, substantial issuances by us of new common shares or convertible bonds could cause our common share price to drop significantly as a result of substantial dilution in the percentage of our shares held by our then existing shareholders. The issuance of common stock for acquisitions or other corporate actions may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by our shareholders, and might have an adverse effect on any trading market for our common stock. Because we are subject to the corporate law of The Netherlands, U.S. investors might have more difficulty protecting their interests in a court of law or otherwise than if we were a U.S. company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in The Netherlands. The corporate affairs of each of our consolidated subsidiaries are governed by the Articles of Association and by the laws governing such corporations in the jurisdiction in which such consolidated subsidiary is incorporated. The rights of the investors and the responsibilities of members of our Supervisory Board and Managing Board under Dutch law are not as clearly established as under the rules of some U.S. jurisdictions. Therefore, U.S. investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, members of our Supervisory Board or our controlling shareholders than U.S. investors would have if we were incorporated in the United States. Our executive offices and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, ST Holding II and most members of our Managing and Supervisory Boards are residents of 20 Table of Contents jurisdictions other than the United States and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for shareholders to effect service within the United States or Canada upon us, ST Holding II, or members of our Managing or Supervisory Boards. It may also be difficult or impossible for shareholders to enforce outside the United States or Canada judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. or Canadian courts, or to enforce in U.S. or Canadian courts judgments obtained against such persons in courts in jurisdictions outside the United States or Canada. This could be true in any legal action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult or impossible for shareholders to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon U.S. securities laws. We have been advised by Dutch counsel that the United States and The Netherlands do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. As a consequence, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States, will not be enforceable in The Netherlands. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in The Netherlands, such party may submit to The Netherlands court the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States. If The Netherlands court finds that the jurisdiction of the federal or state court in the United States has been based on grounds that are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the court in The Netherlands would, under current practice, give binding effect to the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States unless such judgment contradicts The Netherlands’ public policy. Removal of our common shares from the CAC 40 on Euronext Paris, the FTSE MIB on the Borsa Italiana or the PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”) could cause the market price of our common shares to drop significantly. Our common shares have been included in the CAC 40 index on Euronext Paris since November 12, 1997; the FTSE MIB index (which replaced the S&P/MIB on June 1, 2009), or Italian Stock Exchange, since March 18, 2002; and the SOX since June 23, 2003. However, our common shares could be removed from the CAC 40, the FTSE MIB or the SOX at any time if, for a sustained period of time, our market capitalization were to fall below the required thresholds for the respective indices or our shares were to trade below a certain price, or in the case of a delisting of our shares from one or more of the stock exchanges where we are currently listed or if we were to decide to pursue a delisting on one of the three stock exchanges on which we maintain a listing as part of the measures we may from time to time consider to simplify our administrative and overhead expenses. Certain investors will only invest funds in companies that are included in one of these indexes. Any such removal or the announcement thereof could cause the market price of our common shares to drop significantly. 