Risk Factors Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry is cyclical and downturns in the semiconductor industry can negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times. Downturns are typically characterized by diminished demand giving rise to production overcapacity, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, high inventory levels and reduced revenues. Downturns may be the result of industry-specific factors, such as excess capacity, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, changes in end-customer demand, and/or macroeconomic trends impacting the economies of one or more of the world’s major regions: Asia, the United States, Europe and Japan. Such macroeconomic trends relate to the semiconductor industry as a whole and not necessarily to the individual semiconductor markets to which we sell our products. The negative effects on our business from industry downturns may also be increased to the extent that such downturns are concurrent with the timing of new increases in production capacity in our industry. We have experienced revenue volatility and market downturns in the past and expect to experience downturns them in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in production capacity for semiconductor products may lead to overcapacity, which in turn may lead to plant closures, asset impairments, restructuring charges and inventory write-offs. Capital investments for semiconductor manufacturing equipment are made both by integrated semiconductor companies like us and by specialist semiconductor foundry companies, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductor products designed by others. According to data published by industry sources, investments in worldwide semiconductor fabrication capacity totaled approximately $37.7 billion in 2001, $26.1 billion in 2002, $29.5 billion in 2003, $45.7 billion in 2004, $46.1 billion in 2005 and an estimated $55 billion in 2006, or approximately 27%, 19%, 18%, 22%, 20% and 23%, respectively, of the total available market for these years. The net increase of manufacturing capacity, defined as the difference between capacity additions and capacity reductions, may exceed demand requirements, leading to overcapacity and price erosion. Overcapacity and cost optimization have led us, in recent years, to close manufacturing facilities that used more mature process technologies and, as a result, to incur significant impairment, restructuring charges and related closure costs. In 2006, we recorded impairment, restructuring charges and related closure costs of $77 million. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impairment, Restructuring Charges and Other Related Closure Costs”. As of December 31, 2006, the 2005 restructuring plan was substantially completed and had resulted in total charges of approximately $73 million for intangible assets and goodwill mainly related to the CPE product lines and $86 million for headcount restructuring charges, out of an estimated $175 million. Through the period ended December 31, 2006, we have incurred $316 million of the total expected of approximately $330 million in pre-tax charges associated with the 150-mm restructuring plan, slightly down from the original estimate of $350 million that was defined on October 22, 2003, and which was substantially completed by the end of 2006. There can be no assurance that future changes in the market demand for our products, overcapacity, obsolescence in our manufacturing facilities and market downturns may not require us to lower the prices we charge for our products as well as incur additional impairment and restructuring charges, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense, and we may not be able to compete successfully if our product design technologies, process technologies and products do not meet market requirements. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the following characteristics: • price; • technical performance; • product features; • product system compatibility; • product design and technology; • timely introduction of new products; • product availability; 6 Table of Contents • manufacturing yields; and • sales and technical support. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. Like us, many of our competitors also offer a large variety of products. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and/or more focused research and development resources than we do. If these competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing products that compete with ours, we may not be able to compete successfully. Any consolidation among our competitors could also enhance their product offerings, manufacturing efficiency and financial resources, further strengthening their competitive position. Given the intense competition in the semiconductor industry, if our products are not selected based on any of the above factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In many of the market segments in which we compete for business, competition for the selection of suppliers to design products for use in our customers’ equipment and products is very intense, and failure to be selected or to execute could materially adversely affect our business in that market segment. Even after we win and begin a product design, a customer may cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no sales from a product, resulting in a materially adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We regularly devote substantial resources to winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “product design wins”, to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment and products. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures, with no guarantee of winning or generating revenue. Delays in developing new products with anticipated technological advances and failure to win new design projects for customers or in commencing volume shipments of new products may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that new products, if introduced, will gain market acceptance or will not be adversely affected by new technological changes or new product announcements by other competitors that may have greater resources or are more focused than we are. Because we typically focus on only a few customers in a product area, the loss of a design win can sometimes result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. This can result in lost sales and could hurt our position in future competitive selection processes because we may be perceived as not being a technology or industry leader. Even after obtaining a product design win from one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of the customer’s or our lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue at the time of such delay or cancellation. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their own products, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. Semiconductor and other products that we design and manufacture are characterized by rapidly changing technology and new product introductions, and our success depends on our ability to develop and manufacture complex products cost- effectively and to scale. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to constant technological improvements and require large expenditures for capital investments, advanced research and technology development. Many of the resulting products that we market, in turn, have short life cycles, with some being less than one year. If we experience substantial delays or are unable to develop new design or process technologies, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also regularly incur costs to acquire technology from third parties without any guarantee of realizing the anticipated value of such expenditures due to changes in other available technologies or market demand. For example, we charged $52 million as annual amortization expense on our consolidated statement of income in 2006 related to technologies and licenses acquired from third parties through the end of 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the residual value, net of amortization, registered in our consolidated balance sheet for these technologies and licenses was $95 million. In addition to amortization expenses, the value of these assets may be subject to impairment with associated charges being made to our consolidated financial statements. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry may lead to further measures to improve our competitive position and cost structure, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. We are continuously considering various measures to improve our competitive position and cost structure in the semiconductor industry. In February 2005, we decided to stop work on a reference design chipset for the 7 Table of Contents GSM/ GPRS market and announced plans to reduce our Access technology programs for CPE products. In May 2005, we announced additional restructuring efforts to improve profitability. For the years 2003 through 2005, our sales increased at a slower pace than the semiconductor industry as a whole and our market share declined, although we recovered in 2006 with an increase in our sales of 11% compared to an increase of 9% for the industry overall. There is no assurance that we will continue to grow our market share, if we are not able to accelerate product innovation, extend our customer base, realize manufacturing improvements and/or otherwise control our costs. In addition, in recent years the semiconductor industry has continued to increase manufacturing capacity in Asia in order to access lower-cost production and to benefit from higher overall efficiency, which has led to a stronger competitive environment. We may also in the future, if we consider that market conditions so require, consider additional measures to improve our cost structure and competitiveness in the semiconductor market, such as increasing our production capacity in Asia or a discontinuation of certain product families or additional restructurings, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. Risks Related to Our Operations Our research and development efforts are increasingly expensive and dependent on alliances, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by the failure or termination of such alliances, or failure to find new partners in such alliances, in developing new process technologies in line with market requirements. We are dependent on alliances to develop or access new technologies and there can be no assurance that these alliances will be successful or that our partners will continue to participate in the alliances. For example, we are currently cooperating with Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (formerly a division of Motorola Inc.) (“Freescale Semiconductor”) and NXP Semiconductors B.V. (formerly Philips Semiconductor International B.V.) (“NXP Semiconductors”) for the joint research and development of CMOS process technology to provide 90-nm to 32-nm chip technologies on 300-mm wafers, as well as the operation of a 300-mm wafer pilot line fab in Crolles, France (“Crolles2”). We initially formed the Crolles2 alliance with NXP Semiconductors in 2000 and renewed the partnership in 2002 when Freescale Semiconductor joined the alliance. The Crolles2 alliance was also extended in 2002 through a joint development program with TSMC for process technology alignment, in 2004 by the Nanotec-300 research program with CEA-LETI for the development of the 45-nm and 32-nm process technology nodes, and again in 2005 by including 300-mm wafer testing and packaging, as well as the development and licensing of core libraries and IP. In January 2007, NXP Semiconductors announced that it will withdraw from the alliance at the end of 2007 and therefore our Crolles2 alliance will expire on December 31, 2007. Freescale Semiconductor has also notified us that the Crolles2 alliance will terminate as of such date. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in finding new partners to pursue joint R&D work and/or joint manufacturing production at Crolles2 beyond 2007. In addition, the termination of our R&D alliance in Crolles2 with Freescale Semiconductor and NXP Semiconductors may significantly increase our future cost and capital requirements to access advanced CMOS process technologies and proprietary state-of-the-art derivative CMOS technologies, and the operation of our Crolles2 manufacturing facility. We continue to believe that the shared R&D business model contributes to the fast acceleration of semiconductor process technology development while allowing us to lower our development and manufacturing costs. However, there can be no assurance that alliances will be successful or that new alliances will be concluded to allow us to develop and access new technologies in due time, in a cost-effective manner and/or to meet customer demands. Furthermore, if these alliances terminate before our intended goals are accomplished we may lose our investment, or incur additional unforeseen costs, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to develop or otherwise access new technologies independently, we may fail to keep pace with the rapid technology advances in the semiconductor industry, our participation in the overall semiconductor industry may decrease and we may also lose market share in the market addressed by our products. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs adversely impact our results. In less favorable industry environments, we are driven to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures and we are also faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. Since the semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs, we are not always able to reduce our total costs in line with revenue declines. Reduced average selling prices for our products, therefore adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, in periods of reduced customer demand for our products, our wafer fabrication plants (“fabs”) do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with the excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales. Over the last five years, our gross profit margin has varied from a high of 37.9% in the third quarter of 2004 to a low of 32.9% in the first quarter of 2005. We cannot guarantee that 8 Table of Contents difficult market conditions will not adversely affect the capacity utilization of our fabs and, consequently our future gross margins. We cannot guarantee that increased competition in our core product markets will not lead to further price erosion, lower revenue growth rates and lower margins in the future. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry has led to industry consolidation and we may face even more intense competition from newly merged competitors or we may seek to acquire a competitor or become an acquisition target. The intensely competitive environment of the semiconductor industry and the high costs associated with developing marketable products and manufacturing technologies may lead to further consolidation in the industry. Such consolidation can allow a company to further benefit from economies of scale, provide improved or more diverse product portfolios and increase the size of its serviceable market. Consequently, we may seek to acquire a competitor to improve our market position and the applications and products we can market. We also may become a target for a company looking to improve its competitive position. Such an occurrence may take place at any time with consequences that may not be predictable and which can have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our business. Our strategies to improve our results of operations and financial condition may lead us to make significant acquisitions of businesses that we believe to be complementary to our own, or to divest ourselves of activities that we believe do not serve our longer term business plans. In addition, certain regulatory approvals for potential acquisitions may require the divestiture of business activities. Our potential acquisition strategies depend in part on our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets, finance their acquisition and obtain required regulatory and other approvals. Our potential divestiture strategies depend in part on our ability to define the activities in which we should no longer engage, and then determine and execute appropriate methods to divest of them. Acquisitions and divestitures involve a number of risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • difficult integration of acquired company operations and personnel; • loss of activities and technologies that may have complemented our remaining businesses; • assumption of potential liabilities, disclosed or undisclosed, associated with the business acquired, which liabilities may exceed the amount of indemnification available from the seller; • potential inaccuracies in the financial and accounting systems utilized by the business acquired; • that the businesses acquired will not maintain the quality of products and services that we have historically provided; • whether we are able to attract and retain qualified management for the acquired business; • loss of important services provided by key employees that are assigned to divested activities; • whether we are able to retain customers of the acquired entity; and • goodwill and other intangible asset impairment, due to the inability of the business to meet management’s expectations at the time of the acquisition. These and other factors may cause a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The strategic repositioning of our memory business may fail to produce the operational and strategic benefits which we envisioned. As a result of a strategic review of our product portfolio, we decided to actively pursue solutions aimed at strengthening the competitive position of our memory business by deconsolidating that segment from our financial results, and, if possible, participate in industry consolidation. Consequently, on December 13, 2006, we announced plans to create a stand-alone Flash Memories Group. The Flash Memories Group incorporates all Flash memory operations, including research and development and product-related activities, front- and back-end manufacturing, marketing and sales. Our initiative is intended to result in a number of strategic benefits, including the ability to benefit from increased scale and employee incentives more directly tied to our financial performance. This initiative may not produce the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect the results of our operations and future capital requirements. It may also lead to disadvantages, including but not limited to a 9 Table of Contents loss of synergies, economies of scale and one-time or ongoing losses that are not fully offset by any expected benefits. Furthermore, we have a joint development agreement with Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (“Hynix Semiconductor”) for the development of NAND Flash memories and a joint venture agreement with Hynix Semiconductor for the building and operation of a front-end memory manufacturing facility in Wuxi City, China. In addition, we are building a new facility in Catania M6, where facilitization is nearly completed and where we carry approximately $400 million in assets, but which remains to be equipped. Realization of the anticipated benefits depend on the development of future partnerships in the Flash memories business. Future capital investments for this facility should benefit from certain public funding, which has been recently approved by the requisite European Union and Italian authorities. In case the repositioning of our memory business results in a change of control, such business would cease to benefit from those of our agreements which apply only to the subsidiaries in which we have a minimum 50% controlling interest, and our assets value and results of operations may suffer a material adverse effect pursuant to such change of control. Our financial results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, principally in the value of the U.S. dollar. A significant variation of the value of the U.S. dollar against the principal currencies which have a material impact on us (primarily the euro, but also certain other currencies of countries where we have operations) could result in a favorable impact on our net income in the case of an appreciation of the U.S. dollar, or a negative impact on our net income if the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to these currencies. Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations because our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, in which we receive the major part of our revenues, while, more importantly, we incur the majority of our costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Certain significant costs incurred by us, such as manufacturing labor costs and depreciation charges, selling, general and administrative expenses, and research and development expenses, are incurred in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which our operations are located. In order to reduce the exposure of our financial results to the fluctuations in exchange rates, our principal strategy has been to balance as much as possible the proportion of sales to our customers denominated in U.S. dollars with the amount of purchases from our suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars and to reduce the weight of the other costs, including labor costs and depreciation, denominated in euros and in other currencies. In order to further reduce our exposure to U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuations, we have hedged certain line items on our income statement, in particular with respect to a portion of the cost of goods sold, most of the research and development expenses and certain selling and general and administrative expenses located in the euro zone. No assurance can be given that the value of the U.S. dollar will not actually appreciate with the hedging transaction potentially preventing us from benefiting from lower euro-denominated manufacturing costs when translated into our U.S. dollar-based accounts. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Our Consolidated Financial Statements for 2006 include income and expense items translated at the average rate for the period. In 2006, our effective average U.S. dollar exchange rate, which reflects the current exchange rate levels and the impact of our hedging contracts, was €1.00 for $1.24, compared to our effective average exchange rate of €1.00 for $1.28 in 2005. A decline of the U.S. dollar compared to the other major currencies that affect our operations negatively impacts our expenses, margins and profitability, especially if we are unable to balance or shift our euro-denominated costs to other currency areas or to U.S. dollars. Any such actions may not be immediately effective, could prove costly, and their implementation could prove demanding on our management resources. Because we have our own manufacturing facilities, our capital needs are high compared to competitors who do not produce their own products. As a result of our strategic choice to maintain control of our advanced proprietary manufacturing technologies to serve our customer base and develop our strategic alliances, we require significant amounts of capital to build, expand, modernize and maintain our facilities. Some of our competitors, however, do not manufacture their own products and therefore do not require significant capital expenditures for their facilities. Our capital expenditures have been significant in recent years and we spent $1.5 billion in 2006. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We have evolved our strategy towards a less capital intensive structure and as such we expect our capital expenditures to be $1.2 billion in 2007. Our costs may also increase as the complexity of the individual manufacturing equipment increases. We have the flexibility to modulate our investments up or down in response to changes in market conditions, and we are prepared to accelerate investments in leading-edge technologies if market conditions require. 10 Table of Contents To stay competitive in the semiconductor industry, we must transition certain products to 300-mm manufacturing technology, which is much more expensive than 150-mm or 200-mm technologies. Currently, all of our fabs process wafers with diameters of 150-mm or 200-mm and we are running a 300-mm pilot line at Crolles2, with our partners NXP Semiconductors and Freescale Semiconductor. This relationship will expire at December 31, 2007. There is no assurance that we will be successful in finding alternative partnership opportunities to replace the loading currently supported by NXP Semiconductors and Freescale Semiconductor in Crolles2, which in turn may lead to increased capital commitments and manufacturing costs. We have also constructed a building in Catania (Italy), which is not yet equipped, for the volume production of 300-mm wafers, which has been allocated to our new Flash Memories Group. In addition, we have a 33% equity interest in a joint venture company with Hynix Semiconductor, which has built a new 300-mm fab for the production of NAND memory products in Wuxi, China. Since the joint venture is planning to expand its activity, we may be required to make an additional capital investment to keep this level of equity interest in the joint venture. The construction, facilitization or equipment of state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities may require us to issue additional debt or equity, or both, and if we are unable to access such capital on acceptable terms, this may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The timing and size of any new share, convertible bond or straight bond offering would depend upon market conditions as well as a variety of factors, and any such transaction or any announcement concerning such a transaction could materially impact the market price of our common shares. We may also need additional funding in the coming years to finance our investments or to purchase other companies or technologies developed by third parties. In an increasingly complex and competitive environment, we may need to invest in other companies and/or in technology developed by third parties to improve our position in the market. We may also consider acquisitions to complement or expand our existing business. Furthermore, we may need to rely on public funding as we transition to 300-mm manufacturing technology. We are dependent on public funding for equipping the 300-mm wafer production facility in Catania (Italy) and there can be no assurance that we will obtain this public funding, as planned, or that we will be in a position to utilize the funding within the planned time frame. If such planned funding does not materialize, we may lack financial resources to continue with our investment plan for this facility, which in turn could lead us to discontinue our investment in such facility and consequently incur significant impairments. Any of the foregoing may also require us to issue additional debt, equity, or both. If we are unable to access such capital on acceptable terms, this may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Existing loan agreements for local funding of our Singapore and China legal entities contain financial covenants. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and annually and may differ significantly from our expectations or guidance. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability or lead to significant variability of operating results. These factors include, among others, the cyclicality of the semiconductor and electronic systems industries, capital requirements, inventory management, availability of funding, competition, new product developments, technological changes and manufacturing problems. Furthermore, our effective tax rate currently takes into consideration certain favorable tax rates and incentives, which, in the future, may not be available to us. See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a number of other factors could lead to fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results, including: • performance of our key customers in the markets they serve; • order cancellations or reschedulings by customers; • excess inventory held by customers leading to reduced bookings or product returns by key customers; • manufacturing capacity and utilization rates; • restructuring and impairment charges; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in jurisdictions where we have activities; • intellectual property developments; • changes in distribution and sales arrangements; • failure to win new design projects; • manufacturing performance and yields; 11 Table of Contents • product liability or warranty claims; • litigation; • acquisitions or divestitures; • problems in obtaining adequate raw materials or production equipment on a timely basis; and • property damage or business interruption losses resulting from a catastrophic event not covered by insurance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, in periods of industry overcapacity or when our key customers encounter difficulties in their end markets, orders are more exposed to cancellations, reductions, price renegotiation or postponements, which in turn reduce our management’s ability to forecast the next quarter or full year production levels, revenues and margins. For these reasons and others that we may not yet have identified, our revenues and operating results may differ materially from our expectations or guidance as visibility is reduced. See “