Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. As a result of this "credit crunch," commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, the EESA and the U.S. Treasury Department's CPP, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. The EESA was signed into law on October 3, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage backed securities ("MBSs") and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Treasury announced the CPP under EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and may continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. On November 21, 2008, we entered into the CPP Purchase Agreement with the Treasury providing for our issuance of the Series T Preferred Stock and the CPP Warrant to the Treasury. In addition, the FDIC created the TLGP as part of a larger government effort to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the nation's banking system. The TLGP has two components. First, the TLGP includes the TAGP, which provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage through December 31, 2009 for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts) and certain funds swept into noninterest-bearing savings accounts. Institutions participating in the TLGP pay a 10 basis points fee (annualized) on the balance of each covered account in excess of $250,000, while the extra deposit insurance is in place. Second, the TLGP includes the DGP, under which the FDIC guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The unsecured debt must be issued on or after October 14, 2008 and not later than 16 Table of Contents June 30, 2009, and the guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012. On March 17, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule that extends the DGP and imposes surcharges on existing rates for certain debt issuances. This extension allows institutions that have issued guaranteed debt before April 1, 2009 to issue guaranteed debt during the extended issuance period that ends on October 31, 2009. For such institutions, the guarantee on debt issued on or after April 1, 2009, will expire no later than December 31, 2012. The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity's eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009 or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of their liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Depending on the term of the debt maturity, the nonrefundable DGP fee ranges from 60 to 110 basis points (annualized) for covered debt outstanding until the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012 and 75 to 125 basis points (annualized) for covered debt outstanding until after June 30, 2012. The TAGP and DGP are in effect for all eligible entities, unless the entity opted out on or before December 5, 2008. We did not opt out of the TAGP or the DGP. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the "Recovery Act") was signed into law in an effort to, among other things, create jobs and stimulate growth in the United States economy. The Recovery Act specifies appropriations of approximately $787 billion for a wide range of Federal programs and will increase or extend certain benefits payable under the Medicaid, unemployment compensation, and nutrition assistance programs. The Recovery Act also reduces individual and corporate income tax collections and makes a variety of other changes to tax laws. The Recovery Act also imposes certain limitations on compensation paid by participants in the Treasury's TARP, which includes programs under TARP such as the CPP in which we participate. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be "other-than-temporary impairments" ("OTTI"). Because of our participation in the Treasury Department's CPP, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the CPP Purchase Agreement between us and the Treasury, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the CPP Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the CPP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. The Recovery Act has imposed additional and broader compensation restrictions on CPP participants, which restrictions will be implemented by additional regulations. It will require significant time, effort, and resources on our part to ensure compliance, and the evolving regulations regarding compensation may restrict our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent. 17 Table of Contents Legislation or regulatory changes could cause us to seek to repurchase the preferred stock and warrant that we sold to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the CPP. Legislation that has been adopted after we closed on our sale of the Series T Preferred Stock and CPP Warrant on November 21, 2008, or any legislation or regulations that may be implemented in the future, may have a material impact on the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury. If we determine that any such legislation or any regulations, in whole or in part, alter the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury in ways that we believe are adverse to our ability to effectively manage our business, then it is possible that we may seek to unwind, in whole or in part, the CPP transaction by repurchasing some or all of the preferred stock and warrant that we sold to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP. If we were to repurchase all or a portion of such preferred stock or warrant, then our capital levels could be materially reduced. Continuation of the economic downturn could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets. The current economic downturn has negatively affected the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A continuation of the economic downturn or prolonged recession would likely result in the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 65.1% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2008. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely affected by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay future dividends even if we desire to do so. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by our bank's ability to pay cash dividends to our holding company and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support our operations. The ability of our bank to pay cash dividends to our holding company is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on its cash dividends that are applicable to national banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If our bank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to our holding company, then we may be unable to pay cash dividends on our common stock. As long as shares of our Series T Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock have been paid in full. Additionally, prior to November 21, 2011, so long as the U.S. Treasury owns shares of the Series T Preferred Stock, we are not permitted to increase cash dividends on our common stock without the U.S. Treasury's consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series T Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, the warrant to purchase our common stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series T Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are 18 Table of Contents entitled to receive dividends only when, and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series T Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to the U.S. Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series T Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the CPP will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series T Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First Community Corporation. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the U.S. Treasury of the Series T Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 2.6% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of January 16, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we are unable to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock after five years, we will be required to make higher dividend payments on this stock, thereby substantially increasing our cost of capital. If we are unable to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP prior to February 15, 2014, the dividend rate will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series T Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity, our net income available to common shareholders, and our earnings per share. Our small- to medium-sized business target markets may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected. We are exposed to changes in the regulation of financial services companies. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America and the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that Fannie Mae (along with Freddie Mac) has been placed into conservatorship under the control of the newly created Federal Housing Finance Agency. On October 3, 2008, EESA was signed into law, and on October 14, 2008 the U.S. Treasury Department announced its CPP under EESA. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. See "Risk Factors—We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities" below. 19 Table of Contents The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay our liabilities as they come due. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay semi-annual deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid $267,000 in deposit insurance assessments. Due to the recent failure of several unaffiliated FDIC insurance depository institutions and the FDIC's new TLGP, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks will likely increase. In addition, new FDIC requirements shift a greater share of any increase in such assessments onto institutions with higher risk profiles, including banks with heavy reliance on brokered deposits, such as our bank. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. In addition, we intend to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury under the CPP before the dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock increase from 5% per annum to 9% per annum in 2014, and we may need to raise additional capital to do so. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. We obtain a portion of our deposits from out of market sources. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 5% of our deposits were obtained from out of market sources. To continue to have access to this source of funding, we are required to continue to be classified as a "well-capitalized" bank by the OCC; whereas, if we only "meet" the capital requirement, we would be required to obtain permission from the OCC in order to continue utilizing this source of funding. In addition, in view of the recent and dramatic volatility in the credit and liquidity markets, the cost of out of market deposits could exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding or sources of our of market deposits could become unwilling to provide such deposits at all because of concerns about our bank, the banking industry or the economy generally. If our access to these sources of liquidity is diminished, or only available on unfavorable terms, then our net income, net interest margin and our liquidity could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of their technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail, or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. Our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, and, consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as 20 Table of Contents economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: •the duration of the credit; •credit risks of a particular customer; •changes in economic and industry conditions; and •in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: •an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; •our historical loan loss experience; •evaluation of economic conditions; •regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and •the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to the growth of our bank over the past several years, a material portion of the loans in our loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process we refer to as "seasoning." As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because of our internal loan growth, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults 21 Table of Contents increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Economic challenges, especially those affecting Lexington, Richland, Newberry, and Kershaw Counties and the surrounding areas, may reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally difficult national and local conditions. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our market of Lexington, Richland, Newberry, and Kershaw Counties and the surrounding area. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Economic downturns can contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Economic downturns in the economy as a whole, or in Lexington, Richland, Newberry, and Kershaw Counties and the surrounding area, can cause borrowers to be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans may be adversely affected. Unlike some larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Economic downturns may, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate and a downturn in commercial real estate could adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $144.3 million in loans outstanding to borrowers whereby the collateral securing the loan was commercial real estate, representing approximately 43.3% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. The real estate consists primarily of owner-occupied properties, warehouse and other commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner's business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our level of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the related provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans have grown 11.5%, or $14.9 million, since December 31, 2007. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement more stringent underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 89.2% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default 22 Table of Contents by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Changes in the financial markets could impair the value of our investment portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is a significant component of our total earning assets. Total securities averaged $214.7 million in 2008, as compared to $172.3 million in 2007. This represents 39.5% and 36.2% of the average earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the portfolio was 41.2% of earning assets. Turmoil in the financial markets could impair the market value of our investment portfolio, which could adversely affect our net income and possibly our capital. During the last half of 2007 and throughout 2008 the bond markets and many institutional holders of bonds came under a great deal of stress partially as a result of the ongoing liquidity and credit crisis. At December 31, 2008 we had MBSs including collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs") with a fair value of $166.7 million. Of these, approximately $91.1 million were issued by government sponsored enterprises ("GSEs") and $75.6 million by private label issuers. The result has been that the market for these investments has become less liquid and the spread as compared to alternative investments has widened dramatically. To a lesser extent MBSs issued by GSEs such as the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC" or "Freddie Mac") and the Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA" or "Fannie Mae") have been impacted and spreads have increased on these investments. These entities have also experienced increasing delinquencies in the underlying loans that make up the MBSs and CMOs. In 2008 some of the privately issued MBSs have incurred rating agency downgrades. At December 31, 2008 three of our private label CMO's have been downgraded below investment grade. Delinquencies on the underlying mortgages on all mortgage securities have increased dramatically. We monitor these investments monthly and as of December 31, 2008 have not identified any we consider as an OTTI. Increasing delinquencies in the underlying mortgages could result in recognizing OTTI charges in the future. Our other investments include municipal and corporate debt securities. As of December 31, 2008, we had municipal securities with an approximate fair value of $10.1 million and corporate debt securities with an approximate fair value of $12.3 million. While these securities are generally investment grade, there is a risk that their value and liquidity could be negatively affected by the overall economic environment. At December 31, 2007, we also had investments in variable rate preferred stock issued by the FHLMC with a fair value of $10.9 million, and book value of $14.2 million. The market for these preferred securities has been impacted by the current credit and liquidity concerns in the overall bond market. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA") announced that FHFA was placing the FHLMC under conservatorship. Due to these actions, we took an OTTI charge of $8.1 million in the third quarter relating to the Freddie Mac preferred stock that we held. This charge, along with our second quarter of 2008 charge of $6.1 million related to our investment in preferred stock issued by Freddie Mac, eliminated any further direct material exposure in our investment portfolio to Freddie Mac equity securities. In connection with the conservatorship of Freddie Mac, dividends on the Freddie Mac preferred securities have been eliminated. Going forward, we do not expect to receive dividends on our Freddie 23 Table of Contents Mac preferred securities for an indefinite period of time. We received dividends of $292,000, pre-tax, on our Freddie Mac preferred securities in the first six months of 2008. The after-tax impact to diluted earnings per share as a result of the elimination of dividends on the Freddie Mac preferred securities is estimated to be approximately $0.16 annually. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, for securities that were either classified as "Held to Maturity" or "Available for Sale" the unrealized losses on these investments were not considered to be "other than temporary" and we had the intent and ability to hold these until they mature or recover our current book value. We currently maintain substantial liquidity which supports our intent and ability to hold these investments until they mature, or until there is a market price recovery. However, if we were to cease to have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity or a market price recovery, or were to sell these securities at a loss, it could adversely affect our net income and possibly our capital. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend in large part upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and MBSs, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are dependent on key individuals, and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. Michael C. Crapps, our president and chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our primary market area and substantial experience with our operations, and he has contributed significantly to our growth. If we lose the services of Mr. Crapps, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as other management personnel. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel, or the loss of the services of several of such key personnel, could adversely affect our growth strategy and seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. See also 24 Table of Contents "Risk Factors—Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results." The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. To comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have previously hired outside consultant to assist with our internal audit and internal control functions. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification for 2008. Currently the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are not applicable to us until December 31, 2009. We currently anticipate that our auditors will be able to provide the attestation relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in 2009. In the event internal control deficiencies are identified in the future that we are unable to remediate in a timely manner or if we are not able to maintain the requirements of Section 404, we could be subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities and the trading price of our stock could decline. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors and regulators could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We currently anticipate that we will continue to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 within required time frames. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customers. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We will face risks with respect to expansion through acquisitions or mergers. From time to time we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: •the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; 25 Table of Contents •the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; •the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and •the risk of loss of key employees and customers. Our underwriting decisions may materially and adversely affect our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $7.5 million of our loans, or 15.2% of our bank's capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which 2 loans totaling approximately $117,000 had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. In addition, supervisory limits on commercial loan to value exceptions are set at 30% of our bank's capital. At December 31, 2008, $6.1 million of our commercial loans, or12.3% of our bank's capital, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio. We may have higher loan losses than we have allowed for in our allowance for loan losses. Our loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses. Our average loan size continues to increase and reliance on our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. Approximately 76% of our loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of loan collateral and problems affecting the credit of our borrowers. Holders of the Series T preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series T preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury on November 21, 2008 is senior to our shares of common stock and holders of the Series T preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series T preferred stock ranks senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series T preferred stock. So long as any shares of the Series T preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. We and our subsidiary also generally may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series T preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances described more fully below. Furthermore, the Series T preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. 26 Table of Contents Holders of the Series T preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series T preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series T preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series T preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series T preferred stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series T preferred stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series T preferred stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated articles of incorporation, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 662/3% of the shares of Series T preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series T preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series T preferred stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series T preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series T preferred stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series T preferred stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series T preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved staff comments with the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 