Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The Bank is subject to a Formal Agreement that requires us to take certain actions and the Company is subject to an MOU. On April 6, 2010, the Bank entered into the Formal Agreement with the OCC, its primary regulator. The Formal Agreement was based on the findings of the OCC during a 2009 on-site examination of the Bank. As reflected in the Formal Agreement, the OCC's primary concern with the Bank is driven by the rating agencies downgrades of non-agency MBSs in its investment portfolio. These securities, purchased in 2004 through 2008, were all rated AAA by the rating agencies at the time of purchase; however, they have been impacted by the economic recession and the stress on the residential housing sector and have since been downgraded, many to below investment grade. The Board of Directors appointed a compliance committee made up of directors to monitor and report on compliance with the terms of the Formal Agreement. We believe that we are in compliance with the Formal Agreement, and we have received no supervisory objections to any of the articles in the Formal Agreement. Nevertheless, the determination of the Bank's compliance will be made by the OCC, and if the OCC determines that we have failed to meet the requirements of the Formal Agreement, such failure could result in additional regulatory requirements, which could result in regulators taking additional enforcement actions against the Bank. In addition, the 2011 MOU provides that if the Bank or the Company (on a consolidated basis) were to become less than adequately capitalized then the Company would not make payments on subordinated debt not related to trust preferred securities without Federal Reserve approval. The Bank and the Company are currently considered "well capitalized." To be considered adequately capitalized, the OCC and Federal Reserve Board minimum regulatory capital guidelines for Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios are 4.0%, 8.0% and 4.0%, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank's risk-based capital ratios of Tier 1 capital, total capital and leverage were 15.12%, 16.38% and 9.27%, respectively, and the Company's risk-based capital ratios of Tier 1 capital, total capital, leverage ratio were 15.33%, 17.25% and 9.40%, respectively. As in the 2010 MOU, the 2011 MOU includes, among other things, a requirement that the Company obtain the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve before appointing any new director or senior executive officer or changing the position of any senior executive officer; directly or indirectly, incurring, increasing or guaranteeing any debt; and directly or indirectly, purchasing or redeeming any shares of its stock. The 2011 MOU eliminates the requirement contained in the 2010 MOU that the Company obtain written approval from the Federal Reserve prior to taking dividends from the Bank. With respect to Bank dividends, the 2011 MOU only requires that any dividends from the Bank must be paid in compliance with requirements established by the Bank's regulators. The 2011 MOU will remain in effect until further modified or terminated by the Federal Reserve. Changes in the financial markets could impair the value of our investment portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is a significant component of our total earning assets. Total investment securities averaged $205.7 million in 2011, as compared to $194.4 million in 2010. This represents 37.4% and 31.9% of the average earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the portfolio was 33.4% of earning assets. Turmoil in the 25 Table of Contents financial markets could impair the market value of our investment portfolio, which could adversely affect our net income and possibly our capital. Since the last half of 2007, the bond markets and many institutional holders of bonds have been under a great deal of stress partially as a result of the ongoing recessionary economic conditions. At December 31, 2011, we had MBSs, including collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"), with a fair value of $141.6 million. Of these, approximately $126.9 million were issued by government sponsored enterprises ("GSEs") and $14.7 million by private label issuers. The market for CMOs of private label MBSs has become less liquid and the spread as compared to alternative investments has widened dramatically. To a lesser extent, MBSs issued by GSEs such as Freddie Mac and the Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA" or "Fannie Mae") have been impacted and the spreads have increased on these investments. These entities have also experienced increasing delinquencies in the underlying loans that make up the MBSs and CMOs. In 2008 and 2009, the private label MBSs and CMOs we own incurred rating agency downgrades, many to below investment grade. At December 31, 2011, 12 of our private label MBSs and CMOs with a carrying value of $13.3 million have been downgraded below investment grade. Delinquencies on the underlying mortgages on all mortgage securities increased dramatically throughout 2008, 2009, and 2010 and continued to remain at high levels at December 31, 2011. We monitor these investments on a monthly basis. Increasing delinquencies and defaults in the underlying mortgages have resulted in recognizing OTTI during 2009, 2010 and 2011(see Note 5 to the financial statements). In evaluating these securities for OTTI, we use assumptions relative to continued defaults rates, loss severities on the underlying collateral and prepayment speeds. Differences in actual experience and the assumptions used could result in a loss of earnings as a result of further OTTI charges, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our other investments include municipal and corporate debt securities. As of December 31, 2011, we had municipal securities with an approximate fair value of $20.5 million and corporate debt and other securities with an approximate fair value of $1.4 million. At December 31, 2011 all of the municipal and corporate debt securities were rated investment grade. There is a risk that deterioration in the underlying issuer's financial condition or the underlying collateral could result in OTTI charges in future periods. On September 7, 2008, the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA") announced that FHFA was placing the FHLMC under conservatorship. Due to these actions, we took an OTTI charge of $8.1 million in the third quarter of 2008 relating to the Freddie Mac preferred stock that we held. This charge, along with our second quarter of 2008 charge of $6.1 million related to our investment in preferred stock issued by Freddie Mac, eliminated any further direct material exposure in our investment portfolio to Freddie Mac equity securities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our securities, all of which are classified as "Available for Sale", which have unrealized losses were not considered to be "other than temporary," and we believe it is more likely than not we will be able to hold these until they mature or recover our current book value. We currently maintain substantial liquidity which supports our intent and ability to hold these investments until they mature, or until there is a market price recovery. However, if we were to cease to have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity or the market prices do not recover, and we were to sell these securities at a loss, it could adversely affect our net income and possibly our capital. 26 Table of Contents Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of continuing uncertainty into 2012. As a result, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances deteriorated at institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has in general the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including by issuing a historically high number of formal enforcement orders over the past three years. In addition, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions have been adopted, including, without limitation, the EESA, the Recovery Act, and the Dodd-Frank Act. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations by issuing formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation and bank examination practices in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. In response to the challenges facing the financial services sector, a number of regulatory and legislative actions have been enacted or announced. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be "other-than-temporary impairments." Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle market customers. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important customer sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and 27 Table of Contents other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: •the duration of the credit; •credit risks of a particular customer; •changes in economic and industry conditions; and •in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: •an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; •our historical loan loss experience; •evaluation of economic conditions; •regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and •the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. We may have higher loan losses than we have allowed for in our allowance for loan losses. Our actual loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses. Our average loan size continues to increase and reliance on our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 77.9% of our loan portfolio is composed of construction (3.6%), commercial mortgage (67.9%) and commercial loans (6.4%). Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of loan collateral and problems affecting the credit of our borrowers. Economic challenges, especially those affecting Lexington, Richland, Newberry, and Kershaw Counties and the surrounding areas, may reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets of Lexington, Richland, Newberry, and Kershaw Counties and the surrounding area. The current economic downturn has negatively affected the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the size and quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A continuation of the economic downturn or prolonged recession would likely result 28 Table of Contents in reductions in the size of our loan portfolio and the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 74.9% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2011. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, there may be less demand for new loans and borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely affected by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customers. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely impact our financial condition. Our deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain deposit insurance. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, either a deterioration in our risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate and challenges faced by the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $229.4 million in loans outstanding to borrowers whereby the collateral securing the loan was commercial real estate, representing approximately 70.7% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. Approximately 29.1%, or $67.0 million, of this real estate are owner-occupied properties. Commercial real estate loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner's business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our level of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the related 29 Table of Contents provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans have grown 0.91%, or $2.0 million, since December 31, 2010. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement more stringent underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 92.0% of our loans (excluding loans held for sale) had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which could be exacerbated by potential climate change and may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend in large part upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest- earning assets, such as loans and MBSs, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, we believe it is more likely than not a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are dependent on key individuals, and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. Michael C. Crapps, our president and chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our primary market area and substantial experience with our operations, and he has contributed significantly to our business. If we lose the services of Mr. Crapps, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as other management personnel. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel, or the loss of the services of several of such key personnel, could adversely affect our business strategy and seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Because of our participation in the Treasury's CPP, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the CPP Purchase Agreement between us and the Treasury, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the CPP Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the CPP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. The Recovery Act has imposed additional and broader compensation restrictions on CPP participants, which restrictions have been implemented by additional regulations, requiring significant time, effort, and resources on our part to ensure compliance. The evolving regulations regarding compensation may restrict our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from our Bank. We are subject to Federal Reserve Board regulation. Our bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by our primary federal regulators, the OCC, and the FDIC, the regulating authority that insures customer deposits. Also, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (the "FHLB"), our Bank must comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. Our Bank's activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit, and other activities. A sufficient claim against our Bank under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to further changes in the regulation of financial services companies. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America and the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. On September 7, 2008, the Treasury announced that Freddie Mac (along with Fannie Mae) had been placed into conservatorship under the control of the newly created Federal Housing Finance Agency. On October 3, 2008, EESA was signed into law, and on October 14, 2008 the Treasury announced the CPP under EESA. On February 17, 2009, the Recovery Act was signed into law. In November 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule to require FDIC insured banks to prepay the fourth quarter assessment and the next three years assessment by December 31, 2009. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. Pursuant to authority granted under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective on October 1, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board established new rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion. While we are not subject to the interchange fee restrictions, the new restrictions could negatively impact bank card services income for smaller banks if the reductions that are required of larger banks cause industry-wide reduction of swipe fees. In December 2010, the Basel Committee revised final 31 Table of Contents frameworks for the regulation of capital and liquidity of internationally active banking organizations. Although the U.S. banking services have not yet published a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement Basel III in the United States, they are likely to do so (at least with respect to the Basel III capital framework) during 2012. In addition to Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act requires or permits the federal banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting banking institutions' capital requirements in a number of respects, including potentially more stringent capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. See "Risk Factors—We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from our Bank" above. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock or to support further growth, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, if at all. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our future growth, we may need to raise additional capital. In addition, we may redeem the Series T Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury under the CPP before the dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock increase from 5% per annum to 9% per annum in 2014, and we may need to raise additional capital to do so. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. Our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, and, consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the bank cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the bank. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We will face risks with respect to expansion through acquisitions or mergers. From time to time, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: •the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; •the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; •the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and •the risk of loss of key employees and customers. Our underwriting decisions may materially and adversely affect our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $10.8 million of our loans, or 18.1% of our bank's regulatory capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which four loans totaling approximately $262.3 thousand had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. In addition, supervisory limits on commercial loan to value exceptions are set at 30% of our bank's capital. At December 31, 2011, $8.5 million of our commercial loans, or 14.3% of our bank's regulatory capital, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties and our financial condition could be adversely affected if it relies on misleading information. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, which we do not independently verify. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay future dividends even if we desire to do so. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by our Bank's ability to pay cash dividends to the Company and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support our operations. The ability of our Bank to pay cash dividends to the Company is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on its cash dividends that are applicable to national banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If our Bank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to our holding company, then we may be unable to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Pursuant to 33 Table of Contents the terms of the Formal Agreement, our Bank is currently not permitted to pay cash dividends to our Company without the prior consent of the OCC. As long as shares of our Series T Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock have been paid in full. Additionally, so long as the Treasury owns shares of the Series T Preferred Stock, we are not permitted to increase cash dividends on our common stock without the Treasury's consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series T Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, the warrant to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series T Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. If we are unable to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock after five years, we will be required to make higher dividend payments on this stock, thereby substantially increasing our cost of capital. If we are unable to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP prior to February 15, 2014, the dividend rate will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series T Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity, our net income available to common shareholders, and our earnings per share. Legislation or regulatory changes could cause us to seek to repurchase the preferred stock and warrant that we sold to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP. Legislation that has been adopted after we closed on our sale of the Series T Preferred Stock and CPP Warrant on November 21, 2008, altered the terms of our CPP transaction in ways that create additional restrictions, complexity and compliance time and expense. Any legislation or regulations that may be implemented in the future may have a further material impact on the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury. If we determine that any such legislation or any regulations, in whole or in part, alter the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury in ways that we believe are adverse to our ability to effectively manage our business, then we may seek to unwind, in whole or in part, the CPP transaction by repurchasing some or all of the preferred stock and warrants that we sold to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP. If we were to repurchase all or a portion of such preferred stock or warrants, then our capital levels could be materially reduced. There can be no assurance whether or when the Series T Preferred Stock can be redeemed or whether or when the related Warrant can be repurchased. Subject to approval of our regulators, we generally have the right to repurchase the shares of Series T Preferred Stock and the CPP Warrant issued to the Treasury in the TARP Transaction. However, there can be no assurance as to when the Series T Preferred Stock and the Warrant will be repurchased, if at all. As a result, we will remain subject to the uncertainty of additional future changes to the CPP, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Until such time as the Series T Preferred Stock and the CPP Warrant are repurchased, we will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments, which, among other things, require us to obtain regulatory approval to repurchase or redeem our common stock or our other preferred stock or increase the annual aggregate dividends on our common stock over $0.32 per share, except in limited circumstances. 34 Table of Contents The Series T Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series T Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series T Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First Community Corporation. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series T Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 5.7% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. Holders of the Series T Preferred Stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series T Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury on November 21, 2008 is senior to our shares of common stock and holders of the Series T Preferred Stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series T Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series T Preferred Stock. So long as any shares of the Series T Preferred Stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. The Company and the Bank also generally may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances described more fully below. Furthermore, the Series T Preferred Stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series T Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series T Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series T Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series T Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series T Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated articles of incorporation, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 662/3% of the shares of Series T Preferred Stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of 35 Table of Contents shares ranking senior to the Series T Preferred Stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series T Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series T Preferred Stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series T Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series T Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series T Preferred Stock. We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure and a disruption in our operations may adversely affect our business. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of their technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail, or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. In addition, a disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. Negative public opinion surrounding our Company and the financial institutions industry generally could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. The change of control rules under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code could limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future taxable income, if we were to undergo a change of control. We have net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes which, generally, can be used to reduce future taxable income. Our use of our NOL carryforwards would be limited, however, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if we were to undergo a change in ownership of more than 50% of our capital stock over a three-year period as measured under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. These complex change of ownership rules generally focus on ownership changes involving shareholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of our stock, including certain public "groups" of shareholders as set forth under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, including those arising from new stock issuances and other equity transactions. Whether a change in ownership occurs in the future is largely outside of our control, and there can be no assurance that such a change will not occur. If we experience an ownership change, the resulting annual limit on the use of our NOL carryforwards (which generally would equal the product of the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate, multiplied by the value of our capital stock immediately 36 Table of Contents before the ownership change, then increased by certain existing gains recognized within five years after the ownership change if we have a net built-in gain in our assets at the time of the ownership change) could result in a meaningful increase in our federal and state income tax liability in future years. Whether an ownership change occurs by reason of public trading in our stock is largely outside our control, and the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is complex. No assurance can be given that we will not in the future undergo an ownership change that would have an adverse effect on the value of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 