Risk Factors” in this Form 20-F. Other Developments in 2005 In January 2005, we decided to reduce our Access technology products for CPE modem products. This decision was intended to eliminate certain low-volume, non-strategic product families whose return in the current environment did not meet internal targets. This decision resulted in a total impairment charge of approximately $67 million in 2005, out of which $61 million related to impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the CPE product lines. On February 28, 2005, we signed an advanced pricing agreement for the period 2001 through 2007 with the United States Internal Revenue Service resulting in a net one-time tax benefit of approximately $10 million in 2005. In the second quarter of 2005, we benefited from a tax credit of $18 million in relation to the application of the ETI (Extraterritorial Income Exclusion) rules in the United States after notification in writing by the local authorities. At our annual general meeting of shareholders held on March 18, 2005, our shareholders approved the appointment of Mr. Carlo Bozotti as our President and Chief Executive Officer replacing Mr. Pasquale Pistorio who retired. Our shareholders also approved the distribution of a cash dividend of $0.12 per common share in respect to the 2004 financial year, equivalent to the prior year’s cash dividend payment, for a total of approximately $107 million that was paid in the second quarter of 2005. In addition, the shareholders appointed our Supervisory Board and Managing Board members, approved amendments to our Articles of Association and to our 2001 Employee Stock Option Plan, as well as approving a new 2005 share-based compensation for Supervisory Board members and professionals, among other resolutions. Our Supervisory Board is composed of Messrs. Gérald Arbola, Matteo del Fante, Tom de Waard, Didier Lombard, Bruno Steve and Antonino Turicchi, 58 Table of Contents who were each appointed for a three-year term (to expire at our 2008 AGM), as well as Messrs. Doug Dunn, Francis Gavois and Robert White, who were each appointed for a one-year term (to expire at our 2006 AGM). Our Managing Board is composed of Mr. Carlo Bozotti, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who was appointed for a three-year term (to expire at our 2008 AGM). On May 16, 2005, we announced a head count restructuring plan that, combined with other already announced initiatives, will aim to reduce our workforce by 3,000 outside Asia by the second half of 2006. From these new measures estimated to cost between $100 to $130 million, we anticipate additional savings of $90 million per year, at completion of the plan. On June 8, 2005, we specified our restructuring efforts by announcing the following: our workforce gross reduction in Europe will represent about 2,300 jobs of the 3,000 already announced; we will pursue the conversion of 150-mm and 200-mm production tools; we will optimize on a global scale our Electrical Wafer Sorting (EWS) activities; we will harmonize and rationalize our support functions and we will disengage from certain activities. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement that we signed in 2004 with Hynix Semiconductor Inc., to build a front-end memory-manufacturing facility in Wuxi City, Jiangsu Province, China, we made during 2005 capital contributions to the joint venture totaling $38 million, of which $13 million were paid in the fourth quarter of 2005. Under the agreement, Hynix Semiconductor Inc., will contribute $500 million for a 67% equity interest and we will contribute $250 million for a 33% equity interest. In addition, we have committed to grant $250 million in long-term financing for the joint venture guaranteed by the subordinated collateral of the joint venture’s assets. On June 30, 2005, we sold our interest in UPEK Inc. (a spin-off of our former TouchChip business) for $13 million and recorded in the second quarter of 2005 a gain amounting to $6 million. Additionally, on June 30, 2005, we were granted warrants for 2 million shares of UPEK Inc., at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. The warrants are not limited in time but can only be exercised in the event of a change of control or an initial public offering of UPEK Inc., above a predetermined value. On August 6, 2005, the €442 million aggregate principal amount of 63/4% mandatory exchangeable notes, initially issued by France Telecom in 2002 and exchangeable into our common shares, reached maturity. We were informed that the exchange ratio was 1.25 of our common shares per each €20.92 principal amount of notes, which resulted in the disposal by France Telecom of approximately 26.4 million of our currently existing common shares, representing the totality of the shares entirely held by France Telecom in our company. On September 6, 2005, we announced the appointment of two new Corporate Vice Presidents: Mr. Reza Kazerounian was promoted to the position of Corporate Vice President for the North America region and Mr. Marco Luciano Cassis was appointed to the position of Corporate Vice President of STMicroelectronics Japan. On October 17, 2005, we announced the creation of our new “Greater China” region to focus exclusively on our operations in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan and appointed Mr. Robert Krysiak as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Greater China. On October 25, 2005, upon the recommendation of its Compensation Committee, our Supervisory Board approved the conditions for the Executive-Vice Presidents and Corporate Vice Presidents to become eligible for the Company’s Executive Pension Plan Scheme, as follows: eight years of seniority as Executive Vice President or Corporate Vice President, the Managing Board’s decision to be elected into the plan and variable pension amount according to the years of services with the maximum pension after 13 years of service in these positions. In 2005, a provision has been recorded totaling $11 million. In December 2005, Mr. Piero Mosconi retired, leaving his role of Corporate Vice President and Treasurer, a position he occupied since 1987. Treasury moved under the responsibility of our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Carlo Ferro. Mr. Giuseppe Notarnicola joined our Company and was appointed Group Vice President, Corporate Treasurer. Mr. Giordano Seragnoli, Corporate Vice President and General Manager of our worldwide back-end manufacturing operations, is also retiring at the end of the second quarter of 2006. Effective April 3, 2006, Jeffrey See, who is currently General Manager of our manufacturing complex in Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) will take over his responsibilities. Mr. See will continue to be based in Singapore, close to where the largest part of our assembly and test production is located. 59 Table of Contents Recent Developments Upon the proposal of our Managing Board, our Supervisory Board decided in January 2006 to recommend for the 2006 AGM, scheduled in Amsterdam on April 27, 2006, the distribution of a cash dividend of $0.12 per share, maintaining the same cash dividend level as in the prior year. Results of Operations Segment Information We operate in two business areas: Semiconductors and Subsystems. In the Semiconductors business area, we design, develop, manufacture and market a broad range of products, including discrete, memories and standard commodity components, application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”), full custom devices and semi-custom devices and application-specific standard products (“ASSPs”) for analog, digital and mixed-signal applications. In addition, we further participate in the manufacturing value chain of Smart card products through our Incard division, which includes the production and sale of both silicon chips and Smart cards. In the Semiconductors business area, effective January 1, 2005, we realigned our product groups to increase market focus and realize the full potential of our products, technologies and sales and marketing channels. Since such date we report our semiconductor sales and operating income in three product segments: • Application Specific Product Groups (“ASG”) segment, comprised of three product lines — Home, Personal and Communication Products (“HPC”), Computer Peripherals Products (“CPG”) and new Automotive Products (“APG”); • Memory Product Group (“MPG”) segment; and • Micro, Linear and Discrete Product Group (“MLD”) segment. Our principal investment and resource allocation decisions in the Semiconductor business area are for expenditures on research and development and capital investments in front-end and back-end manufacturing facilities. These decisions are not made by product segments, but on the basis of the semiconductor business area. All these product segments share common research and development for process technology and manufacturing capacity for most of their products. Please see “