Risk Factors Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry is cyclical and downturns in the semiconductor industry can negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times. Downturns are typically characterized by diminished demand giving rise to production overcapacity, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, high inventory levels and reduced revenues. Downturns may be the result of industry-specific factors, such as excess capacity, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, changes in end-customer demand, and/or macroeconomic trends impacting global economies. Such macroeconomic trends relate to the semiconductor industry as a whole and not necessarily to the individual semiconductor markets to which we sell our products. The negative effects on our business from industry downturns may also be increased to the extent that such downturns are concurrent with the timing of new increases in production capacity in our industry. We have experienced revenue volatility and market downturns in the past and expect to experience them in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Reduction in demand or increase in production capacity for semiconductor products may lead to overcapacity, which in turn may require plant closures, asset impairments, restructuring charges and inventory write-offs. Capital investments for semiconductor manufacturing equipment are made both by integrated semiconductor companies like us and by specialist semiconductor foundry companies, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductor products designed by others. According to data published by industry sources, investments in worldwide semiconductor fabrication capacity totaled approximately $29.5 billion in 2003, $45.7 billion in 2004, $46.1 billion in 2005, $54.8 billion in 2006 and an estimated $57.2 billion in 2007, or approximately 18%, 22%, 20%, 22% and 22%, respectively, of the total available market (the “TAM”) for these years. The net increase of manufacturing capacity, defined as the difference between capacity additions and capacity reductions, may exceed demand requirements, leading to overcapacity and price erosion. In recent years, overcapacity and cost optimization have led us to close manufacturing facilities that used more mature process technologies and, as a result, to incur significant impairment, restructuring charges and related closure costs. In 2007 we announced closures of our Phoenix, Carrollton, and Ain Sebaa manufacturing facilities and recorded impairment, restructuring charges and related closure costs of $73 million. Previously announced restructuring and cost reduction plans were substantially completed as of December 31, 2007 and resulted in total charges of approximately $38 million. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impairment, Restructuring Charges and Other Related Closure Costs.” There can be no assurance that future changes in the market demand for our products and/or the need to mitigate overcapacity or obsolescence in our manufacturing facilities may not require us to lower the prices we charge for our products, and/or that market downturns, or overcapacity or obsolescence may not lead us to incur additional impairment and restructuring charges, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense, and we may not be able to compete successfully if our product design technologies, process technologies and products do not meet market requirements. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the following characteristics: • price; • technical performance; • product features; • product system compatibility; • product design and technology; • timely introduction of new products; • product availability; • manufacturing yields; and • sales and technical support. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. Similarly, many of our competitors also offer a large variety of products. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and/or more focused research and development resources than we do. If these competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing products that compete with ours, we may not be able to compete successfully. Any consolidation among our competitors could also enhance their product offerings, manufacturing efficiency and financial resources, further strengthening their competitive position. Given the intense competition in the semiconductor industry, if our products are not selected based on any of the above factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We regularly devote substantial resources to winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “product design wins”, to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment and products. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures, with no guarantee of winning or generating revenue. Delays in developing new products with anticipated technological advances and failure to win new design projects for customers or in commencing volume shipments of new products may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that new products, if introduced, will gain market acceptance or will not be adversely affected by new technological changes or new product announcements from other competitors that may have greater resources or are more focused than we are. Because we typically focus on only a few customers in a product area, the loss of a design win can sometimes result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. This can result in lost sales and could hurt our position in future competitive selection processes because we may be perceived as not being a technology or industry leader. Even after obtaining a product design win from one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of our customers or our lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue at the time of such delay or cancellation. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their own products, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. Semiconductor and other products that we design and manufacture are characterized by rapidly changing technology and new product introductions, and our success depends on our ability to develop and manufacture complex products cost- effectively and to scale. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to constant technological improvements and may require large expenditures for capital investments, advanced research and technology development. Many of the resulting products that we market, in turn, have short life cycles, with some being less than one year. If we experience substantial delays or are unable to develop new design or process technologies, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also regularly incur costs to acquire technology from third parties without any guarantee of realizing the anticipated value of such expenditures due to better market acceptance of technologies developed by competitors or market demand. We charged $47 million as annual amortization expense on our consolidated statement of income in 2007 related to technologies and licenses acquired from third parties. In 2007 we signed a major technology 7 Table of Contents development agreement with IBM to develop 32-nm and 22-nm complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (“CMOS”) process technology for 300-mm silicon wafers in order to pursue ongoing core CMOS technology development following the termination of the R&D Crolles 2 Alliance with Freescale Semiconductor and NXP Semiconductors starting this year. We also signed an agreement with IBM to license a derivative technology to implement in our proprietary process for the manufacture of 45-nm integrated circuits. As of December 31, 2007, the residual value, net of amortization, registered in our consolidated balance sheet for these technologies and licenses was $128 million. In addition to amortization expenses, the value of these assets may be subject to impairment with associated charges being made to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In November 2007 we closed a business acquisition, which included intellectual property and design engineers, in the wireless market for approximately $92 million. In December 2007 we announced, and in January 2008 completed the acquisition of Genesis Microchip Inc. (“Genesis Microchip”) for intellectual property related to the digital consumer marketplace and design engineers for $342 million. There is no assurance that such purchases will be successful and will not lead to impairments and associated charges. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry may lead to further measures to improve our competitive position and cost structure, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. We are continuously considering various measures to improve our competitive position and cost structure in the semiconductor industry. In 2007 we also made the decision to divest our Flash Memory activities by combining our business with that of Intel and announcing the planned creation of a new independent semiconductor company in the area of Flash memories, which was named Numonyx. The intent is that such new company will benefit from critical size to be competitive in this market. The transaction concerning the creation of Numonyx is planned to close in the first quarter of 2008. There is no assurance that such transaction will close within the timeframe and pursuant to the terms currently planned. Recently, our sales increased at a slower pace than the semiconductor industry as a whole and our market share declined, even in relation to the markets we serve. Although we recovered in 2006 with an increase in our sales of 11% compared to an increase of 9% for the industry overall, in 2007, our sales increased 1.5% while the industry increased by approximately 3%. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or to grow our market share, if we are not able to accelerate product innovation, extend our customer base, realize manufacturing improvements and/or otherwise control our costs. In addition, in recent years the semiconductor industry has continued to increase manufacturing capacity in Asia in order to access lower-cost production and to benefit from higher overall efficiency, which has led to a stronger competitive environment. We may also in the future, if market conditions so require, consider additional measures to improve our cost structure and competitiveness in the semiconductor market, such as increasing our production capacity in Asia, discontinuing certain product families or adding restructurings, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. Risks Related to Our Operations Strategic repositioning may be required, in light of market dynamics, to improve our business performance. As a result of a strategic review of our product portfolio, we decided in 2007 to divest our Flash Memory activities by combining our business with that of Intel and announcing the planned creation of a new independent semiconductor company in the area of Flash memories, which was named Numonyx. The intent is that such new company will benefit from critical size to be competitive in this market. The transaction concerning the creation of Numonyx is planned to close in the first quarter of 2008. In 2007 we incurred a loss of $1,106 million in connection with this planned transaction. The amount of the loss may increase pending the final evaluation report being prepared by an independent firm, as well as the impact of any further deterioration in the market conditions of the Flash memory business and the credit markets generally. Further, if the transaction is postponed or not consummated as planned, we may incur additional charges. Once Numonyx begins operations, we may also incur losses proportionate to our equity holding in this company. Additionally, we are constantly monitoring our product portfolio and cannot exclude that additional steps in this repositioning process may be required; further, we cannot assure that the strategic repositioning of our business will be successful and produce the planned operational and strategic benefits and may not result in further impairment and associated charges. 8 Table of Contents Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our business. Our strategies to improve our results of operations and financial condition may lead us to make significant acquisitions of businesses that we believe to be complementary to our own, or to divest ourselves of activities that we believe do not serve our longer term business plans. In addition, certain regulatory approvals for potential acquisitions may require the divestiture of business activities. Our potential acquisition strategies depend in part on our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets, finance their acquisition and obtain required regulatory and other approvals. Our potential divestiture strategies depend in part on our ability to define the activities in which we should no longer engage, and then determine and execute appropriate methods to divest of them. Acquisitions and divestitures involve a number of risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • difficult integration of acquired company operations and personnel; • loss of activities and technologies that may have complemented our remaining businesses; • insufficient intellectual property rights or potential inaccuracies in the ownership of key IP; • assumption of potential liabilities, disclosed or undisclosed, associated with the business acquired, which liabilities may exceed the amount of indemnification available from the seller; • potential inaccuracies in the financial and accounting systems utilized by the business acquired; • that the businesses acquired will not maintain the quality of products and services that we have historically provided; • whether we are able to attract and retain qualified management for the acquired business; • loss of important services provided by key employees that are assigned to divested activities; • whether we are able to retain customers of the acquired entity; and • goodwill and other intangible asset impairment, due to the inability of the business to meet management’s expectations at the time of the acquisition. These and other factors may cause a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs adversely impact our results. In less favorable industry environments, we are driven to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures and we are also faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. Reduced average selling prices for our products adversely affect our results of operations. Since the semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs, we are not always able to reduce our total costs in line with revenue declines. Furthermore, in periods of reduced customer demand for our products, our wafer fabrication plants (“fabs”) do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with the excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales as unused capacity charges. Additionally, a significant number of our manufacturing facilities are located in France and Italy and their cost of operation have been significantly affected by the rise of the Euro against the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency, over the last few years. In 2007 the U.S. dollar was $1.35 to €1.00 compared to $1.24 in 2006 and may weaken further in the future. Over the last five years, our gross profit margin has varied from a high of 37.9% in the third quarter of 2004 to a low of 32.9% in the first quarter of 2005. We cannot guarantee that difficult market conditions will not adversely affect the capacity utilization of our fabs and, consequently our future gross margins. We cannot guarantee that increased competition in our core product markets will not lead to further price erosion, lower revenue growth rates and lower margins. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry has led to industry consolidation and we may face even more intense competition from newly merged competitors or we may seek to acquire a competitor or become an acquisition target. The intensely competitive environment of the semiconductor industry and the high costs associated with developing marketable products and manufacturing technologies may lead to further consolidation in the industry. Such consolidation can allow a company to further benefit from economies of scale, provide improved or more 9 Table of Contents diverse product portfolios and increase the size of its serviceable market. Consequently, we may seek to acquire a competitor to improve our market position and the applications and products we can market. We may also become a target for a company looking to improve its competitive position. Such an occurrence may take place at any time with consequences that may not be predictable and which can have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, principally in the value of the U.S. dollar. A significant variation of the value of the U.S. dollar against the principal currencies which have a material impact on us (primarily the Euro, but also certain other currencies of countries where we have operations) could result in a favorable impact on our net income in the case of an appreciation of the U.S. dollar, or a negative impact on our net income if the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to these currencies. Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations because our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, in which we receive the major part of our revenues, while, more importantly, we incur a significant portion of our costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Certain significant costs incurred by us, such as manufacturing labor costs and depreciation charges, selling, general and administrative expenses, and research and development expenses, are incurred in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which our operations are located. Our effective average exchange rate, which reflects actual exchange rate levels combined with the impact of hedging programs, was $1.35 to €1.00 in 2007, compared to $1.24 in 2006. A decline of the U.S. dollar compared to the other major currencies that affect our operations negatively impacts our expenses, margins and profitability, especially if we are unable to balance or shift our Euro-denominated costs to other currency areas or to U.S. dollars. Any such actions may not be immediately effective, could prove costly, and their implementation could prove demanding on our management resources. In order to reduce the exposure of our financial results to the fluctuations in exchange rates, our principal strategy has been to balance as much as possible the proportion of sales to our customers denominated in U.S. dollars with the amount of purchases from our suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars and to reduce the weight of the other costs, including labor costs and depreciation, denominated in Euros and in other currencies. In order to further reduce our exposure to U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuations, we have hedged certain line items on our consolidated statements of income, in particular with respect to a portion of the cost of goods sold, most of the research and development expenses and certain selling and general and administrative expenses located in the Euro zone. No assurance can be given that the value of the U.S. dollar will not actually appreciate with hedging transactions, potentially preventing us from benefiting from lower Euro-denominated manufacturing costs when translated into our U.S. dollar-based accounts or that we will not suffer from weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the Euro on the non-hedged portion of our costs and expenses. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Because we have our own manufacturing facilities, our capital needs are high compared to competitors who do not produce their own products. As a result of our choice to maintain control of a certain portion of our advanced proprietary manufacturing technologies to better serve our customer base and to develop our strategic alliances, significant amounts of capital to maintain or upgrade our facilities could be required in the future. Our capital expenditures have been significant in recent years and we spent $1.1 billion in 2007. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have evolved our strategy towards a less capital intensive model and as such we expect our capital expenditures to be in the range of 10% of our 2008 revenues. Our costs may also increase as the complexity of the individual manufacturing equipment increases. We have the flexibility to modulate our investments up or down in response to changes in market conditions, and we are prepared to accelerate investments in leading-edge technologies if market conditions require. To stay competitive in the semiconductor industry, we must transition towards 300-mm manufacturing technology, which is much more expensive than 150-mm or 200-mm technologies. We operated a 300-mm facility with Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (formerly a division of Motorola Inc.) (“Freescale Semiconductor”) and NXP Semiconductors B.V. (formerly Philips Semiconductor International B.V.) (“NXP Semiconductors”) until December 31, 2007 in Crolles, France (“Crolles2”). This relationship has since expired and we have chosen to take full ownership of the fab and acquire our former partners’ equipment. This choice may lead to an increase in our manufacturing costs. Following the announced closures in 2007 of our 200-mm facility in Phoenix and our 10 Table of Contents 150-mm facility in Carrollton, we are in the process of transferring production primarily to other facilities, which involves certain risks as customers are required to requalify these facilities. We may also need additional funding in the coming years to finance our investments or to purchase other companies or technologies developed by third parties. In an increasingly complex and competitive environment, we may need to invest in other companies and/or in technology developed by third parties to improve our position in the market. We may also consider acquisitions to complement or expand our existing business. Any of the foregoing may also require us to issue additional debt, equity, or both; the timing and the size of any new share or bond offering would depend upon market conditions as well as a variety of factors, and any such transaction or any announcement concerning such a transaction could materially impact the market price of our common shares. If we are unable to access such capital on acceptable terms, this may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our research and development efforts are increasingly expensive and dependent on alliances, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by the failure or termination of such alliances, or failure to find new partners in such alliance and/or in developing new process technologies in line with market requirements. We are dependent on alliances to develop or access new technologies, due to the increasing levels of required investments, and there can be no assurance that these alliances will be successful. For example, we had been cooperating with Freescale Semiconductor and NXP Semiconductors for the joint research and development of CMOS process technology to provide 90-nm to 45-nm chip technologies on 300-mm wafers, as well as the operation of a 300-mm wafer pilot line fab in Crolles, France. We had first formed the Crolles2 alliance with NXP Semiconductors in 2000 and renewed the partnership in 2002 when Freescale Semiconductor joined the alliance (“Crolles2 Alliance”). The Crolles2 Alliance was strengthened in 2002 through a joint development program with TSMC for process technology alignment, in 2004 by the Nanotec-300 research program with CEA-LETI for the development of the 45-nm and 32-nm process technology nodes, and again in 2005 by including 300-mm wafer testing and packaging, as well as the development and licensing of core libraries and intellectual property (“IP”). The Crolles2 Alliance expired on December 31, 2007, as a result of the decision of both NXP Semiconductors and Freescale Semiconductors to terminate their participation at the end of the initial term. We signed an agreement with IBM effective January 1, 2008 to collaborate on the development of advanced CMOS process technology that is used in semiconductor development and manufacturing. The agreement includes 32-nm and 22-nm CMOS process-technology development, design enablement and advanced research adapted to the manufacturing of 300-mm silicon wafers. In addition, it includes both the core bulk CMOS technology and value-added derivative System-on-Chip (“SoC”) technologies. The new agreement between IBM and us will also include collaboration on IP development and platforms to speed the design of SoC devices in these technologies. We also signed an agreement with IBM to license a derivative technology to implement in our proprietary process for the manufacture of 45nm integrated circuits. We continue to believe that the shared research and development (“R&D”) business model contributes to the fast acceleration of semiconductor process technology development while allowing us to lower our development and manufacturing costs. However, there can be no assurance that alliances will be successful and allow us to develop and access new technologies in due time, in a cost-effective manner and/or to meet customer demands. Furthermore, if these alliances terminate before our intended goals are accomplished we may lose our investment, or incur additional unforeseen costs, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to develop or otherwise access new technologies independently, we may fail to keep pace with the rapid technology advances in the semiconductor industry, our participation in the overall semiconductor industry may decrease and we may also lose market share in the market addressed by our products. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and annually and may differ significantly from our expectations or guidance. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability or lead to significant variability of operating results. These factors include, among others, the cyclicality of the semiconductor and electronic systems industries, capital requirements, inventory management, availability of funding, competition, new product developments, technological changes and manufacturing problems. Furthermore, our effective tax rate currently takes into consideration certain favorable tax rates and 11 Table of Contents incentives, which, in the future, may not be available to us. See Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a number of other factors could lead to fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results, including: • performance of our key customers in the markets they serve; • order cancellations or reschedulings by customers; • excess inventory held by customers leading to reduced bookings or product returns by key customers; • manufacturing capacity and utilization rates; • restructuring and impairment charges; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in jurisdictions where we have activities; • intellectual property developments; • changes in distribution and sales arrangements; • failure to win new design projects; • manufacturing performance and yields; • product liability or warranty claims; • litigation; • acquisitions or divestitures; • problems in obtaining adequate raw materials or production equipment on a timely basis; • property damage or business interruption losses resulting from a catastrophic event not covered by insurance; and • changes in the market value or yield of the financial instruments in which we invest our liquidity. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, in periods of industry overcapacity or when our key customers encounter difficulties in their end markets, orders are more exposed to cancellations, reductions, price renegotiation or postponements, which in turn reduce our management’s ability to forecast the next quarter or full year production levels, revenues and margins. For these reasons and others that we may not yet have identified, our revenues and operating results may differ materially from our expectations or guidance as visibility is reduced. See “