Risk Factors Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry has been significantly impacted by the deteriorating global economic situation, and the prospects of a prolonged recession could have a further material impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The recent deterioration in general economic conditions, driven by the credit market crisis, has slowed global economic activity and impacted business and consumer confidence. This has resulted in an unprecedented, precipitous decline in the demand for semiconductor products. As a result, our business, financial conditions and results of operations have been and may continue to be affected. A prolonged economic downturn affecting the semiconductor industry may result in a variety of risks to our business, including: • significant declines in sales; • significant reductions in selling prices; • the resulting significant impact on our gross margins and profitability; • increased volatility and/or declines in our share price; • increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • delays in, or curtailment of, purchasing decisions by our customers or potential customers either as a result of overall economic uncertainty or as a result of their inability to access the liquidity necessary to engage in purchasing initiatives or new product development; • underloading of wafer fabrication plants (“fabs”); 6 Table of Contents • decreased valuations of our equity investments; • increased credit risk associated with our customers or potential customers, particularly those that may operate in industries most affected by the economic downturn, such as automotive; and • impairment of goodwill or other assets. To the extent that the current economic downturn worsens or is prolonged, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be more significantly and adversely affected. The semiconductor industry may also be impacted by changes in the political, social or economic environment, including as a result of military conflict, social unrest and/or terrorist activities, as well as natural events such as severe weather, health risks, epidemics or earthquakes in the countries in which we, our key customers and our suppliers, operate. We may face greater risks due to the international nature of our business, including in the countries where we, our customers or our suppliers operate, such as: • negative economic developments in foreign economies and instability of foreign governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks or civil unrest; • epidemics such as disease outbreaks, pandemics and other health related issues; • changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment, including through the imposition of new constraints on investment and trade; and • varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and downturns in the semiconductor industry can negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times. Downturns are typically characterized by diminished demand giving rise to production overcapacity, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, high inventory levels and reduced revenues. Downturns may be the result of industry-specific factors, such as excess capacity, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, changes in end-customer demand, and/or macroeconomic trends impacting global economies. Such macroeconomic trends relate to the semiconductor industry as a whole and not necessarily to the individual semiconductor markets to which we sell our products. The negative effects on our business from industry downturns may also be increased to the extent that such downturns are concurrent with the timing of new increases in production capacity in our industry. We have experienced revenue volatility and market downturns in the past and expect to experience them in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Reduction in demand and/or an increase in production capacity for semiconductor products may lead to overcapacity, which in turn may require us to make decisions that could result in temporary or permanent plant closures, asset impairments, restructuring charges, inventory write-offs and workforce and overhead cost reductions. Capital investments for semiconductor manufacturing equipment are made both by integrated semiconductor companies like us and by specialist semiconductor foundry companies, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductor products designed by others. The net increase of manufacturing capacity, defined as the difference between capacity additions and capacity reductions, may exceed demand requirements, leading to overcapacity and price erosion. If the semiconductor market does not grow as we anticipated when making investments in production capacity, we risk overcapacity. In addition, if demand for our products is lower than expected, this may result in write-offs of inventories and losses on products, and could require us to undertake restructuring measures that may involve significant charges to our earnings. In recent years, overcapacity and cost optimization have led us to close manufacturing facilities that used 7 Table of Contents more mature process technologies and, as a result, to incur significant impairment and restructuring charges and related closure costs. In connection with the difficult market conditions and the recent integration of newly acquired businesses (such as, in 2008, Genesis and NXP Wireless and, in the first quarter of 2009, EMP) we launched new restructuring initiatives aimed at rationalizing our operations and our worldwide workforce. The total cost associated with these programs in 2008 amounted to $71 million. Additionally, in 2008, we incurred $164 million impairment and restructuring charges and related closure costs associated with the 2007 plan for the announced closures of our Phoenix, Carrollton, and Ain Sebaa manufacturing facilities, bringing the total cost to $237 million since the beginning of this plan. Furthermore, previously announced restructuring and cost reduction plans generated additional charges of approximately $11 million and were almost completed as at December 31, 2008. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impairment, Restructuring Charges and Other Related Closure Costs.” There can be no assurance that future changes in the market demand for our products and/or the need to mitigate overcapacity or obsolescence in our manufacturing facilities may not require us to lower the prices we charge for our products, and/or that market downturns, or overcapacity or obsolescence may not lead us to incur additional impairment and restructuring charges, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense, and we may not be able to compete successfully if our product design technologies, process technologies and products do not meet market requirements. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the following characteristics: • price; • technical performance; • product features; • product system compatibility; • product design and technology; • timely introduction of new products; • product availability; • manufacturing yields; and • sales and technical support. Given the intense competition in the semiconductor industry, if our products are not selected based on any of the above factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. Similarly, many of our competitors also offer a large variety of products. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and/or more focused research and development (“R&D”) resources than we do. If these competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing products that compete with ours, we may not be able to compete successfully. Any consolidation among our competitors could also enhance their product offerings, manufacturing efficiency and financial resources, further strengthening their competitive position. As we are a supplier of a broad range of products, we are required to make significant investments in R&D across our product portfolio in order to remain competitive. Current economic conditions may impair our ability to maintain our current level of R&D investments and, therefore, we may need to become more focused in our R&D investments across our broad range of product lines. This could significantly impair our ability to remain a viable competitor in the product areas where our competitors’ R&D investments are higher than ours. We regularly devote substantial resources to winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “product design wins”, to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment and products. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures, with no guarantee of 8 Table of Contents winning or generating revenue. Delays in developing new products with anticipated technological advances and failure to win new design projects for customers or in commencing volume shipments of new products may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that new products, if introduced, will gain market acceptance or will not be adversely affected by new technological changes or new product announcements from other competitors that may have greater resources or are more focused than we are. Because we typically focus on only a few customers in a product area, the loss of a design win can sometimes result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. This can result in lost sales and could hurt our position in future competitive selection processes because we may be perceived as not being a technology or industry leader. Even after obtaining a product design win from one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of our customers’ or our lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue at the time of such delay or cancellation. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their own products, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. Semiconductor and other products that we design and manufacture are characterized by rapidly changing technology and new product introductions, and our success depends on our ability to develop and manufacture complex products cost- effectively and to scale and acquire the necessary intellectual property (“IP”). Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to constant technological improvements and may require large expenditures for capital investments, advanced research and technology development. Many of the resulting products that we market, in turn, have short life cycles, with some being less than one year. If we experience substantial delays or are unable to develop new design or process technologies, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also regularly incur costs to acquire IP from third parties without any guarantee of realizing the anticipated value of such expenditures if our competitors develop technologies that are more accepted than ours, or if market demand does not materialize as anticipated. We charged $71 million as annual amortization expense on our consolidated statement of income in 2008 related to technologies and licenses acquired from third parties. As of December 31, 2008, the residual value, net of amortization, registered in our consolidated balance sheet for these technologies and licenses was $342 million. In addition to amortization expenses, the value of these assets may be subject to impairment with associated charges being made to our Consolidated Financial Statements. There is no assurance that these and other IP purchases will be successful and will not lead to impairments and associated charges. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry may lead to further measures to improve our competitive position and cost structure, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. We are continuously considering various measures to improve our competitive position and cost structure in the semiconductor industry. In the past, our sales have, at times, increased at a slower pace than the semiconductor industry as a whole and our market share has declined, even in relation to the markets we served. Although our sales increased 11% in 2006 compared to an increase of 9% for the industry overall, in 2007, our performance was below the semiconductor industry’s performance overall. In 2008, as a result of the global economic downturn, the industry as a whole decreased by approximately 2.8% and our sales decreased by 1.6%. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or grow our market share if we are unable to accelerate product innovation, identify new applications for our products, extend our customer base, realize manufacturing improvements and/or otherwise control our costs. In addition, in recent years the semiconductor industry has continued to increase manufacturing capacity in Asia in order to access lower-cost production and to benefit from higher overall efficiency, which has led to a more competitive environment. We may also in the future, if market conditions so require, consider additional measures 9 Table of Contents to improve our cost structure and competitiveness in the semiconductor market, such as seeking more competitive sources of production, discontinuing certain product families or performing additional restructurings, which in turn may result in loss of revenues, asset impairments and/or capital losses. Risks Related to Our Operations Market dynamics are driving us to a strategic repositioning, which has led us to enter into significant joint ventures. As a result of a strategic review of our product portfolio, in 2008 we divested our Flash Memory activities by combining our business with that of Intel and creating Numonyx, a new independent semiconductor company in the area of Flash memories. The intent is that Numonyx will benefit from critical size to be competitive in this market. The transaction concerning the creation of Numonyx closed on March 30, 2008. We incurred a total impairment and disposal loss of $1,297 million in connection with this transaction, of which $190 million was recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008, and $31 million of other restructuring charges, of which $26 million was incurred in the year ended December 31, 2008. We also incurred losses in 2008 related to our equity holding in Numonyx, for a total amount of approximately $545 million, including a $480 million impairment on the equity investment. In the first quarter of 2009, we also incurred losses of $229 million, out of which $200 million was an additional impairment on the equity investment in Numonyx. There is no assurance that if the flash memory market were to further deteriorate, or if Numonyx were unable to effectively compete or maintain its market position, Numonyx will not be required to undertake further restructurings, which in turn could lead to additional impairments and associated charges. We also recently undertook new initiatives to reposition our business. In January 2008, we completed the acquisition of Genesis Microchip Inc. (“Genesis Microchip”) for $340 million and in August 2008, we completed the acquisition of NXP’s wireless business for $1,550 million, creating the joint venture, ST-NXP Wireless. Furthermore, in February 2009, we completed the merger of ST-NXP Wireless with EMP, thereby forming ST-Ericsson and in connection therewith we purchased the outstanding 20% held by NXP’s ST-NXP Wireless for a price of $92 million. The wireless activities run through ST-Ericsson represent a significant portion of our business. The integration process may be long and complex due to the fact that we are merging three different companies. On April 29, 2009, ST-Ericsson announced a restructuring plan giving rise to costs estimated in the range of $70 million to $90 million. We may not be able to exercise the same control over management as we did when the business was operated by us. There is no assurance that we will be successful or that the joint venture will produce the planned operational and strategic benefits. We are constantly monitoring our product portfolio and cannot exclude that additional steps in this repositioning process may be required; further, we cannot assure that any strategic repositioning of our business, including possible future acquisitions, dispositions or joint ventures, will be successful and may not result in further impairment and associated charges. Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our business. Our strategies to improve our results of operations and financial condition may lead us to make significant acquisitions of businesses that we believe to be complementary to our own, or to divest ourselves of activities that we believe do not serve our longer term business plans. In addition, certain regulatory approvals for potential acquisitions may require the divestiture of business activities. Our potential acquisition strategies depend in part on our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets, finance their acquisition and obtain required regulatory and other approvals. Our potential divestiture strategies depend in part on our ability to define the activities in which we should no longer engage, and then determine and execute appropriate methods to divest of them. Acquisitions and divestitures involve a number of risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the risk that we may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or teams we acquire with our culture and strategies on a timely basis or at all, and the risk that we may be required to record charges related to the goodwill or other long-term assets associated with the acquired businesses. Changes in our expectations due to changes in market developments that we cannot foresee have in the past resulted in our writing off amounts 10 Table of Contents associated with the goodwill of acquired companies, and future changes may require similar further write-offs in future periods. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the full scope of the benefits we expect from a particular acquisition, divestiture or investment. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing businesses and any acquired businesses. In addition, the financing of future acquisitions may negatively impact our financial condition and could require us to need additional funding from the capital markets. Other risks associated with our acquisition activities include: • diversion of management’s attention; • insufficient intellectual property rights or potential inaccuracies in the ownership of key IP; • assumption of potential liabilities, disclosed or undisclosed, associated with the business acquired, which liabilities may exceed the amount of indemnification available from the seller; • potential inaccuracies in the financials of the business acquired; • that the businesses acquired will not maintain the quality of products and services that we have historically provided; • whether we are able to attract and retain qualified management for the acquired business; and • whether we are able to retain customers of the acquired entity. Other risks associated with our divestiture activities include: • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of activities and technologies that may have complemented our remaining businesses or operations; • loss of important services provided by key employees that are assigned to divested activities; and • social issues or restructuring costs linked to divestitures and closures. These and other factors may cause a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs adversely impact our results. In less favorable industry environments, we are driven to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures and we are also faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. Reduced average selling prices for our products adversely affect our results of operations. Since the semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs, we are not always able to reduce our total costs in line with revenue declines. Furthermore, in periods of reduced customer demand for our products, our fabs do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with the excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales as unused capacity charges. Additionally, a significant number of our manufacturing facilities are located in France and Italy and their cost of operation have been significantly affected by the rise of the Euro against the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency over the last few years. In 2008 the U.S. dollar was $1.49 to €1.00 compared to $1.35 in 2007 and may weaken further in the future. Over the last five years, our gross profit margin has varied from a high of 37.9% in the third quarter of 2004 to a low of 26.3% in the first quarter of 2009. The current difficult market conditions have had a significant affect on the capacity utilization of our fabs and, consequently, our gross margins. We cannot guarantee that such market conditions, and increased competition in our core product markets, will not lead to further price erosion, lower revenue growth rates and lower margins. The competitive environment of the semiconductor industry has led to industry consolidation and we may face even more intense competition from newly merged competitors or we may seek to acquire a competitor in order to improve our market share. The intensely competitive environment of the semiconductor industry and the high costs associated with developing marketable products and manufacturing technologies, not to mention the financial difficulties facing 11 Table of Contents some of our competitors, may lead to further consolidation in the industry. Such consolidation can allow a company to further benefit from economies of scale, provide improved or more diverse product portfolios and increase the size of its serviceable market. Consequently, we may seek to acquire a competitor to improve our market position and the applications and products we can market. Some of our competitors, however, may also try to take advantage of such a consolidation process and may have greater financial resources to do so. Our financial results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, principally in the value of the U.S. dollar. A significant variation of the value of the U.S. dollar against the principal currencies that have a material impact on us (primarily the Euro, but also certain other currencies of countries where we have operations) could result in a favorable impact on our net income in the case of an appreciation of the U.S. dollar, or a negative impact on our net income if the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to these currencies. Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations because our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, in which we receive the major part of our revenues, while, more importantly, we incur a significant portion of our costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Certain significant costs incurred by us, such as manufacturing labor costs and depreciation charges, selling, general and administrative expenses, and R&D expenses, are incurred in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which our operations are located, which mainly includes the euro zone. Our effective average exchange rate, which reflects actual exchange rate levels combined with the impact of hedging programs, was $1.49 to €1.00 in 2008, compared to $1.35 in 2007. A decline of the U.S. dollar compared to the other major currencies that affect our operations negatively impacts our expenses, margins and profitability, especially if we are unable to balance or shift our Euro-denominated costs to other currency areas or to U.S. dollars. Any such actions may not be immediately effective, could prove costly, and their implementation could prove demanding on our management resources. In order to reduce the exposure of our financial results to the fluctuations in exchange rates, our principal strategy has been to balance as much as possible the proportion of sales to our customers denominated in U.S. dollars with the amount of purchases from our suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars and to reduce the weight of the other costs, including labor costs and depreciation, denominated in Euros and in other currencies. In order to further reduce our exposure to U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuations, we have hedged certain line items on our consolidated statements of income, in particular with respect to a portion of the cost of goods sold, most of the R&D expenses and certain selling and general and administrative expenses located in the Euro zone. No assurance can be given that our hedging transactions will prevent us from incurring higher Euro-denominated manufacturing costs when translated into our U.S. dollar-based accounts in the event of a weakening of the U.S. dollar on the non-hedged portion of our costs and expenses. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Because we have our own manufacturing facilities, our capital needs are high compared to competitors who do not produce their own products. As a result of our choice to maintain control of a certain portion of our advanced proprietary manufacturing technologies to better serve our customer base and to develop our strategic alliances, significant amounts of capital to maintain or upgrade our facilities could be required in the future. Although in the last three years our overall capital expenditures, as expressed in terms of percentage to sales, have significantly decreased, they remain high, and in 2008 we spent $983 million. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” By pursuing our strategy of a less capital intensive model, we expect to reduce our capital expenditures by 50% in 2009 compared to 2008. 12 Table of Contents We may also need additional funding in the coming years to finance our investments or to purchase other companies or technologies developed by third parties or to refinance our maturing indebtedness. In an increasingly complex and competitive environment, we may need to invest in other companies and/or in technology developed either by us or by third parties to maintain or improve our position in the market. We may also consider acquisitions to complement or expand our existing business. In addition, we may be required to refinance maturing indebtedness. Any of the foregoing may also require us to issue additional debt, equity, or both; the timing and the size of any new share or bond offering would depend upon market conditions as well as a variety of factors, and any such transaction or any announcement concerning such a transaction could materially impact the market price of our common shares. If we are unable to access such capital on acceptable terms, this may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our research and development efforts are increasingly expensive and dependent on alliances, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by the failure or termination of such alliances, or failure to find new partners in such alliance and/or in developing new process technologies in line with market requirements. We are dependent on alliances to develop or access new technologies, particularly in light of the increasing levels of investment required for R&D activities, and there can be no assurance that these alliances will be successful. For example, from 2002 and until the end of 2007, we cooperated as part of the Crolles 2 Alliance with Freescale Semiconductor and NXP Semiconductors to develop submicron complementary metal-on silicon oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) logic processes on 300mm wafers and to build and operate an advanced 300mm wafer pilot line in Crolles, France. Such alliance terminated on December 31, 2007, pursuant to notifications by both NXP Semiconductors and Freescale Semiconductor to terminate their participation at the end of the initial five year period. Effective January 1, 2008, we signed an agreement with IBM to collaborate on the development of advanced CMOS process technology that is used in semiconductor development and manufacturing. The agreement includes 32-nm and 22-nm CMOS process-technology development, design enablement and advanced research adapted to the manufacturing of 300-mm silicon wafers which is being developed at IBM premises in Fishkill. In addition, it includes value-added derivative System-on-Chip (“SoC”) technologies which is to be developed in Crolles. The agreement with IBM also includes collaboration on IP development and platforms to speed the design of SoC devices in these technologies. In August 2008, we signed an agreement with Infineon Technologies (“Infineon”) and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (“STATS ChipPAC”) to jointly develop the next-generation of embedded Wafer-Level Ball Grid Array (“eWLB”) technology, based on Infineon’s first-generation technology, for use in manufacturing future-generation semiconductor packages. We believe this alliance will fully exploit the potential of Infineon’s existing eWLB packaging technology, which has been licensed by Infineon to us and STATS ChipPAC. We continue to believe that we can maintain proprietary R&D for derivative technology investments and share R&D business models, which are based on cooperation and alliances, for core R&D process technology if we receive adequate support from state funding, as in the case of the Crolles 3 NANO 2012 frame agreement signed by us with the French government in the first quarter of 2009. This, coupled with manufacturing and foundry partnerships, provides us with a number of important benefits, including the sharing of risks and costs, reductions in our own capital requirements, acquisitions of technical know-how and access to additional production capacities. In addition, it contributes to the fast acceleration of semiconductor process technology development while allowing us to lower our development and manufacturing costs. However, there can be no assurance that alliances will be successful and allow us to develop and access new technologies in due time, in a cost-effective manner and/or to meet customer demands. Certain companies, such as Intel and TSMC, develop their own process technologies, which may be more advanced than the technologies we develop through our cooperative alliances. Furthermore, if these alliances terminate before our intended goals are accomplished we may lose our investment, or incur additional unforeseen costs, and our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to develop or otherwise access new technologies independently, we may fail to keep pace with the rapid technology advances in the semiconductor industry, our participation in the overall semiconductor industry may decrease and we may also lose market share in the market addressed by our products. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and annually and may differ significantly from our expectations or guidance. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability or lead to significant variability of operating results. These factors include, among others, the cyclicality of the semiconductor and electronic systems industries, capital requirements, inventory management, availability of funding, competition, new product developments, technological changes and manufacturing problems. For example, if anticipated sales or shipments do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels in a given quarter can be disproportionately high, and our results of operations for that quarter, and potentially for future quarters, may be adversely affected. In addition, our effective tax rate currently takes into consideration certain favorable tax rates and incentives, which, in the future, may not be available to us. See Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. A number of other factors could lead to fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results, including: • performance of our key customers in the markets they serve; • order cancellations or reschedulings by customers; • excess inventory held by customers leading to reduced bookings or product returns by key customers; • manufacturing capacity and utilization rates; • restructuring and impairment charges; • losses on equity investments; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in jurisdictions where we have activities; • intellectual property developments; • changes in distribution and sales arrangements; • failure to win new design projects; • manufacturing performance and yields; • product liability or warranty claims; • litigation; • acquisitions or divestitures; • problems in obtaining adequate raw materials or production equipment on a timely basis; • property loss or damage or interruptions to our business, including as a result of fire, natural disasters or other disturbances at our facilities or those of our customers and suppliers that may exceed the amounts recoverable under our insurance policies; and • changes in the market value or yield of the financial instruments in which we invest our liquidity. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, in periods of industry overcapacity or when our key customers encounter difficulties in their end markets, orders are more exposed to cancellations, reductions, price renegotiation or postponements, which in turn reduce our management’s ability to forecast the next quarter or full year production levels, revenues and margins. For these reasons and others that we may not yet have identified, our revenues and operating results may differ materially from our expectations or guidance as visibility is reduced. See “