Item 1A. Risk Factors This section briefly discusses certain risks that should be considered by stockholders and prospective investors in Avigen. Many of these risks are discussed in other contexts in other sections of this report. Risks Related to Our Business We expect to continue to operate at a loss and we may never achieve profitability Since our inception in 1992, we have not been profitable, and we cannot be certain that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. To date, we have been engaged in research and development activities and have not generated any revenues from product sales. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $171.3 million. Developing new compounds will require significant additional research and development activities, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, and regulatory approval. We expect these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, to result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully identify, acquire and complete development of proposed products, and to obtain required regulatory approvals and manufacture and market our approved products directly or through business partners. 11 If we are able to enhance our existing pipeline of product candidates through the in-license or other acquisition of additional development candidates, we may expose ourselves to new risks that were not identified prior to negotiating the in-license or other acquisition agreement that may prevent us from successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates Even if we are able to in-license or acquire potential products, we may fail to identify risks during our due diligence efforts, or new risks may arise later in the development process of our product candidates, that we may be unable to adequately address. If we are unable to address such previously unidentified risks in a timely manner, we will have paid too much for the acquisition or in-license of the potential product, and our business and results of operations will be harmed. Our historic research and development activities have primarily focused on our gene delivery products, which raises uncertainty about our ability to develop and commercialize more conventional small molecule product candidates effectively We have limited experience in developing or commercializing conventional small molecule product candidates. If we are unable to effectively develop any of the products in our development portfolio or any new products we in-license or acquire, it would significantly reduce our ability to create commercial opportunities for such products. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours non-competitive or obsolete There are many entities, both public and private, including well-known, large pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions engaged in developing pharmaceuticals for neurological and other applications similar to those that may be targeted by us. Competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective and less costly than any that we develop and also may prove to be more successful in the manufacturing and marketing of products, which would render the products that we develop non-competitive or obsolete. Furthermore, many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in drug development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals, and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly and more effectively than we do. Any product that we successfully develop and for which we gain regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Accordingly important competitive factors, in addition to completion of clinical testing and the receipt of regulatory approval, will include product efficacy, safety, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of supply, marketing and sales capacity, reimbursement coverage, pricing and patent protection. We are aware that other companies are conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials for products that could compete with products we intend to acquire or develop. See “Item 1. Business — Competition” for a more detailed discussion of the competition we face. The regulatory process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our product candidates Prior to marketing in the United States, any product developed by us must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA. This process is lengthy, complex and expensive, and approval is never certain. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure that positive results will be demonstrated in clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. Potential problems we may encounter in the implementation stages of our studies include the chance that we may not be able to conduct clinical trials at preferred sites, obtain sufficient test subjects, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, the FDA may temporarily suspend clinical trials at any time if it believes the subjects participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, if it finds deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation, or to better analyze data surrounding any unexpected developments. 12 Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain FDA approval. If we do not receive these necessary approvals from the FDA, we will not be able to generate substantial revenues or become profitable. We may not be successful in obtaining required foreign regulatory approvals, which would prevent us from marketing our products internationally We cannot be certain that we will obtain any regulatory approvals in other countries. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements implemented by foreign regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of any other country. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our approved products, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market Any product for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data collection and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. After approval of a product, we will have significant ongoing regulatory compliance obligations. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in penalties or other actions, including removal of a product or products from the market. We may need to secure additional financing to acquire and complete the development and commercialization of our products At December 31, 2005 we had cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, and restricted investments of approximately $70.4 million. We anticipate that our existing capital resources as of December 31, 2005 will be adequate to fund our needs for approximately three years. However, beyond that, or earlier if we are successful in pursuing additional indications for compounds in our portfolio or acquiring additional product candidates, we may require additional funding to complete the research and development activities currently contemplated, to acquire new products, and to commercialize our products. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • continued scientific progress in research and development programs; • the scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs involved in obtaining licenses to patented technologies from third parties that may be needed to commercialize our products; • how successful, if at all, we are at expanding our drug development portfolio through a combination of internal research, acquisitions, and in-licensing compounds, and the nature of the consideration we pay for acquiring or in-licensing compounds; • competing technological developments; • the cost of manufacturing for clinical trials and commercialization; • the cost of commercialization activities; and • other factors which may not be within our control. We intend to continue to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, when market conditions allow, or through additional collaborative arrangements with corporate partners. If we raise 13 additional funds by issuing equity securities there may be further dilution to existing stockholders. We cannot assure our investors that we will be able to enter into such financing arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. Without such additional funding, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs. We expect to depend on third parties to manufacture compounds for our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and the requirements of regulatory authorities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed We intend to use third parties to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients and supplies for our product candidates. For example, we rely entirely on Sanochemia to manufacture and supply to us AV650 for both clinical and commercial supply. We have entered into an exclusive arrangement with them for this. We have no experience in manufacturing small molecule compounds and do not have any manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to enter into supply and processing contracts with third party manufacturers or processors for our other product candidates, or even if we are able to enter into supply and processing contracts, if Sanochemia or such other manufacturers or processors are unable to or do not satisfy our requirements, or if disputes arise between us and our suppliers, we may experience a supply interruption and we may incur additional cost and delay in the clinical development or commercialization of our products. If we are required to find an additional or alternative source of supply, there may be additional cost and delay in the development or commercialization of our products. Furthermore, with AV650, while we are entitled to require Sanochemia to redundantly source certain AV650 finishing activities beginning as of the time and solely to the extent specified in the contract, we are not entitled to establish a second or independent source of AV650 supply other than under specified circumstances. In this and any future exclusive supply contracts for our full requirements, we are or will be particularly reliant on our suppliers. Additionally, the FDA inspects all commercial manufacturing facilities before approving a New Drug Application for a drug manufactured at those sites. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to pass the FDA inspection, our clinical trials, the potential approval and eventual commercialization of our products may be delayed. If we are able to bring our potential products to market, we will face a number of risks outside of our control as we may be dependent on others to market our products, as well as to facilitate demand for our products Even if we are able to develop our potential products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we have no experience in marketing or selling any of our proposed products. We currently do not have a marketing or sales staff. If we are successful in achieving FDA approval of any product candidate, including any product that we may acquire as a result of our business development efforts, we will need to build a commercial capability. The development of a marketing and sales capability will require significant expenditures, management resources and time. We may be unable to build such a sales force, the cost of establishing such a sales force may exceed any product revenues, or our marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We may not be able to find a suitable sales and marketing partner for our products. If we are unable to successfully establish a sales and marketing capability in a timely manner or find suitable sales and marketing partners, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Even if we are able to develop a sales force or find a suitable marketing partner, we may not successfully penetrate the markets for any of our proposed products. We intend to enter into distribution and marketing agreements with other companies for our products outside the U.S. and do not anticipate establishing our own foreign sales and marketing capabilities for any of our potential products in the foreseeable future. If any of our foreign marketing partners do not perform under future agreements, we would need to identify an alternative marketing and distribution partner, or market this product ourselves, and we may not be able to establish adequate marketing capabilities for this product. Our success is dependent on acceptance of our products. We cannot assure you that our products will achieve significant market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payers, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance will harm our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot predict 14 whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effect that such potential proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. We may be unable to attract and retain the qualified employees, consultants and advisors we need to be successful We are highly dependent on key members of our senior management and scientific staff. The loss of any of these persons could substantially impair our research and development efforts and impede our ability to develop and commercialize any of our products. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel will also be critical to our success. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical personnel with these skills are in high demand. As a result, competition for and retention of personnel, particularly for employees with technical expertise, is intense and the turnover rate for these people can be high. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. A majority of our scientific advisors are engaged by us on a consulting basis and are employed on a full-time basis by others. We have limited control over the activities of these scientific collaborators which often limit their availability to us. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could delay our progress and harm our business. In addition, some of these collaborators may have consulting or other advisory arrangements with other entities that may conflict or compete with their obligations to us. Changes in board and management composition could adversely disrupt our operations. We have recently experienced changes to our board of directors and senior management team, including the death of our Chariman of the Board in December 2005 and the resignation of our Chief Financial Officer in January 2006. We have filled these two roles with members of our current board and executive staff. We are in the process of recruiting additional candidates to fill the vacancy and expand the size of our board of directors, and hope to add to our commercialization and clinical development expertise. These changes could be disruptive, and we may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining new directors or in integrating members of the Board and management team into new roles with respect to our business. We face the risk of liability claims which may exceed the scope or amount of our insurance coverage The manufacture and sale of medical products entails significant risk of liability claims. We currently carry liability insurance; however, we cannot assure you that this coverage will remain in place or that this coverage will be adequate to protect us from all liabilities which we might incur in connection with the use of our products in clinical trials or the future use or sale of our products upon commercialization. In addition, we may require increased liability coverage as additional products are used in clinical trials and commercialized. This insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms in the future, if at all. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. We must indemnify certain of our licensors against any liability claims brought against them arising out of products developed by us under these licenses. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, and we may incur substantial additional costs to comply with environmental laws in connection with the operation of our research and manufacturing facilities We use radioactive materials and other hazardous substances in our research and development operations. As a result, we are potentially subject to substantial liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages they may cause. In addition, clean up costs associated with radioactivity or other hazardous substances, and related damages or liabilities could be significant and could harm our business. We do not believe that our current level of use of these controlled substances will require any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the next few years. We are also required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety which could impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. If we were to fail to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations we could require substantial additional capital. 15 The testing of our potential products relies heavily on the voluntary participation of subjects in our clinical trials, which is not within our control, and could substantially delay or prevent us from completing development of such products The development of our potential products is dependent upon collecting sufficient data from human clinical trials to demonstrate safe and effective results. We experienced delays in enrolling subjects in our previous gene therapy clinical trials, and we may experience similar difficulties with our current products in the future. Any delay or failure to recruit sufficient numbers of subjects to satisfy the level of data required to be collected under our clinical trial protocols could prevent us from developing any products we may target. AAV Gene therapy technology is new and developing rapidly and Genzyme Corporation may face delays in developing products based on technologies included in our assignment agreement, in which case we may not receive any additional milestone, sublicense or royalty payments in connection with the agreement Development of drug products, including gene therapy products, is unpredictable and is subject to many risks and uncertainties. We are not aware of any gene therapy products that Genzyme Corporation has fully developed or for which it has received regulatory approval for commercial sale in the U.S. As such, we face the risk that they will not be able to develop or receive regulatory approval for commercial sale of any product candidates that might utilize technologies included in our assignment agreement. Therefore, we may never receive any additional milestone, sublicense or royalty payments in connection with our previous work on AAV gene therapy activities. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success is dependent upon our ability to effectively protect our patents and proprietary rights, which we may not be able to do Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to obtain patents and licenses to patent rights, preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. If we are not successful in these endeavors, our business will be substantially impaired. To date, we have filed a number of patent applications in the U.S. relating to technologies we have developed or co-developed. In addition, we have acquired licenses to certain issued patents and pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee that patents will issue from these applications or that any patent will issue on technology arising from additional research or, if patents do issue, that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect our technologies. The patent application process takes several years and entails considerable expense. The failure to obtain patent protection on the technologies underlying certain of our proposed products may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the scope of patent protection for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products, and we expect that administrative proceedings, litigation, or both may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of our and others’ patents. These proceedings or litigation may require a significant commitment of our resources in the future. If patents can be obtained, we cannot assure you that any of these patents will provide us with any competitive advantage. For example, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us, and patents may be invalidated or held unenforceable in litigation. For example, for at least one of our product candidates, the compound in it is no longer patented. For that candidate, we intend to rely (if they issue) primarily on formulation and potentially use patent claims (combined with any available regulatory exclusivity) rather than more traditional composition-of-matter patent claims on the active ingredient itself. Formulation and use coverage may not be effective in preventing others from marketing the active compound in competition with us. As another example, in our AV411 program, the compound is off-patent. We have filed and own a patent application on its use for the indications for which we are developing. However, we cannot assure you that this patent application, even if it one day issues as a patent, will effectively prevent others from marketing the same drug for the indications currently claimed by our patent application. We also rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. We cannot be certain that these measures will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, 16 know-how or other proprietary information. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our intellectual property successfully. We may not be able to patent certain formulations of our products in development and may need to rely on protections under the Hatch-Waxman Act to prevent generics from copying our product candidates Certain of our products in development are molecules that are in the public domain. While we are working to obtain patent protection for our formulations, manufacturing processes, and uses of these molecules, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. In cases where no patent protection can be obtained, regulatory exclusivity providing protection against generic competition can be obtained under the Hatch-Waxman Act if we are the first to obtain regulatory approval to market these compounds. There is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies with greater financial and personnel resources may be able to obtain regulatory approval to market one or more of these compounds prior to our obtaining such approval. Failure to obtain patent protection or regulatory exclusivity will adversely impact our ability to commercialize our products and realize a positive return on our investment. Other persons may assert rights to our proprietary technology, which could be costly to contest or settle Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our products, technologies, or other matters. Any claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, can be time-consuming and expensive to defend or prosecute and resolve. There may be third-party patents and other intellectual property relevant to our products and technology which are not known to us. We have not been accused of infringing any third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property, but we cannot assure you that litigation asserting claims will not be initiated, that we would prevail in any litigation, or that we would be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the outcome is favorable to us. In addition, to the extent outside collaborators apply technological information developed independently by them or by others to our product development programs or apply our technologies to other projects, disputes may arise as to the ownership of proprietary rights to these technologies. We may be required to obtain rights to proprietary genes and other technologies to further develop our business, which may not be available or may be costly We currently investigate and use certain gene sequences or proteins encoded by those sequences, including the IL-10 gene, and manufacturing processes that are or may become patented by others. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses to these gene sequences or proteins or other technology in order to test, use or market products. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on terms favorable to us, if at all. In connection with our efforts to obtain rights to these gene sequences or proteins or other technology, we may find it necessary to convey rights to our technology to others. Some of our products may require the use of multiple proprietary technologies. Consequently, we may be required to make cumulative royalty payments to several third parties. These cumulative royalties could become commercially prohibitive. We may not be able to successfully negotiate these royalty adjustments to a cost effective level, if at all. If we do not fulfill our obligations under our in-license agreements, including our in-license for AV650, we may not be able to retain our rights under those agreements and may be forced to cease our activities with the affected product candidate or technology We have entered into license agreements with third parties for technologies related to our product development programs. Typically, we have obligations under these agreements to diligently pursue commercialization of products using the technologies licensed to us, among other obligations including payment, patent prosecution, information-sharing and licensing obligations. We have these kinds of obligations to Sanochemia under our AV650 agreement with them. If we fail to fulfill our obligations under these agreements and fail to obtain a waiver of any material failure to fulfill such obligations, the licensor may terminate these license agreements with relatively short notice 17 to us. Termination of any of our license agreements could harm our business and force us to cease our activities with the affected product candidate or technology. Similarly, if disputes arise between us and our licensors, our rights to the licensed product candidates and technologies could be threatened. In addition, any such dispute could harm us through taking our management’s time and attention to resolve the dispute. Risks Related to Our Stock Anti-takeover effects of certain charter provisions and Delaware law may negatively affect the ability of a potential buyer to purchase some or all of our stock at an otherwise advantageous price, which may limit the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock Certain provisions of our charter and Delaware law may negatively affect the ability of a potential buyer to attempt a takeover of Avigen, which may have a negative effect on the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. This would enable the Board of Directors to establish a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” which would have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the outstanding voting stock of Avigen. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, and each year on a rotating basis the directors of one class are elected for a three-year term. This provision could have the effect of making it less likely that a third party would attempt to obtain control of Avigen through Board representation. Furthermore, certain other provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Our stock price is volatile, and as a result investing in our common stock is very risky From January 1, 2004 to March 1, 2006, our stock price has fluctuated between a range of $2.63 and $7.93 per share. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including announcements of: • technological innovations or regulatory approvals; • results of clinical trials; • new products by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • achievement or failure to achieve certain developmental milestones; • public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products; • health care or reimbursement policy changes by governments or insurance companies; • developments of significant acquisitions or in relationships with corporate partners; • announcements by us regarding financing transactions and/or future sales of equity securities; or • changes in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the shares of biotechnology and health care companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These broad market and industry fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline dramatically. 18 Our future financial results will be affected by changes in the accounting rules governing the recognition of stock-based compensation expense. Through December 31, 2005, we measured compensation expense for our employee stock compensation plans under the intrinsic value method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB No. 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” Beginning January 1, 2006, we are required to measure equity compensation expense using the fair value method, which will adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our reported losses or reducing future reported income and which may adversely affect our stock price. Had we accounted for our compensation expense under the fair value method of accounting prescribed by FAS 123, our equity compensation expenses for 2005, 2004, and 2003 would have been significantly higher, increasing by approximately $2.2 million, $6.4 million and $9.9 million, net of reported amounts prescribed under APB No. 25, respectively. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 