Item 1A. Risk Factors This section briefly discusses some risks that should be considered by stockholders and prospective investors in Avigen. Many of these risks are discussed in other contexts in other sections of this report. As discussed in the first risk factor below, we are exploring strategic alternatives, which include a potential sale of the company or a potential dissolution of the company. Many of the risk factors below address risks that we may face if we continue as a company, but would not be a risk if we were to determine to dissolve the company. Risks Related to Our Business Our company is in a transition phase, and so the future of our company is uncertain In October 2008 we terminated our lead product candidate, AV650, when the trial for that product candidate did not meet its primary endpoint. We quickly downsized our company, including a staff reduction of over 70 percent of our total workforce, and sold the rights to our early stage AV513 program. As a result, our only current clinical stage product candidate is AV411. We have engaged independent strategic advisors to oversee an orderly and competitive process to review merger and acquisition opportunities and to assist in the monetization of our AV411 program. If at any point during the review, it becomes evident to our Board that a favorable transaction is unlikely, we intend to continue to consider all other strategic options, including monetizing the remaining company assets, selling the company, or a full or partial distribution of cash to stockholders. Consequently, within the next year, we expect to either, acquire another company and begin developing a new product or products, sell the company, or distribute our cash and wind up. Any of these three events is a realistic possibility. 7 If we are able to enhance our existing pipeline of product candidates through the acquisition of additional development candidates, we may expose ourselves to new risks that were not identified prior to negotiating the acquisition agreement that may prevent us from successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates Even if we are able to acquire potential products, we may fail to identify risks during our due diligence efforts, or new risks may arise later in the development process of our product candidates, that we may be unable to adequately address. If we are unable to address such previously unidentified risks in a timely manner, we will have paid too much for the acquisition of the potential product, and our business and results of operations will be harmed. If we acquire another company or product and we are not able to integrate them with our business, or we do not realize the anticipated goals for such a transaction, our business would be harmed. We are investigating the possible acquisition of another company or product. We only have limited experience in doing so, and for any such company or product that we successfully acquire, we will be exposed to a number of risks, including: we may find that we overpaid for the company or product; we may have difficulty integrating the assets, technologies, operations or personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product markets; and we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. We expect that any such acquisition will be by an issuance of shares of our common stock, in which case our existing stockholders would be diluted. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. We expect to continue to operate at a loss and we may never achieve profitability Since our inception in 1992, we have not been profitable, and we cannot be certain that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. To date, we have been engaged in research and development activities and have not generated any revenues from product sales. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $245.8 million. If we continue as a company, developing new compounds will require significant additional research and development activities, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, and regulatory approval. We expect that these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, would result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully identify, acquire and complete development of proposed products, and to obtain required regulatory approvals and manufacture and market our approved products directly or through business partners. We are evaluating other strategic opportunities which could create additional requirements that could effect our ability to achieve profitability. The regulatory process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our product candidates Prior to marketing in the United States, any product developed by us must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA. This process is lengthy, complex and expensive, and approval is never certain. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure that positive results will be demonstrated in clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. Potential problems we may encounter in the implementation stages of our studies include the chance that we may not be able to conduct clinical trials at preferred sites, obtain sufficient test subjects, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, the FDA may temporarily suspend clinical trials at any time if it believes the subjects participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, if it finds deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation, or to better analyze data surrounding any unexpected developments. 8 Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain FDA approval. If we do not receive these necessary approvals from the FDA, we will not be able to generate substantial revenues or become profitable. We may not be successful in obtaining required foreign regulatory approvals, which would prevent us from marketing our products internationally We cannot be certain that we will obtain any regulatory approvals in other countries. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements implemented by foreign regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of any other country. The testing of our potential products relies heavily on the voluntary participation of subjects in our clinical trials, which is not within our control, and could substantially delay or prevent us from completing development of such products The development of our potential products is dependent upon collecting sufficient data from human clinical trials to demonstrate safe and effective results. We experienced delays in enrolling subjects in our previous gene therapy clinical trials, and we may experience similar difficulties with our current products in the future. Any delay or failure to recruit sufficient numbers of subjects to satisfy the level of data required to be collected under our clinical trial protocols could prevent us from developing any products we may target. We expect to depend on third parties to manufacture compounds for our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and the requirements of regulatory authorities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed We intend to use third parties to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients and supplies for our product candidates. For example, prior to the termination of our agreement with Sanochemia, we relied entirely on Sanochemia to manufacture and supply to us AV650 for both clinical and commercial supply through an exclusive arrangement with them for this. We have no experience in manufacturing small molecule compounds and do not have any manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to enter into supply and processing contracts with third party manufacturers or processors for our other product candidates, or even if we are able to enter into supply and processing contracts, if manufacturers or processors are unable to or do not satisfy our requirements, or if disputes arise between us and our suppliers, we may experience a supply interruption and we may incur additional cost and delay in the clinical development or commercialization of our products. If we are required to find an additional or alternative source of supply, there may be additional cost and delay in the development or commercialization of our products. For any future exclusive supply contracts for our full requirements, we will be particularly reliant on our suppliers. Additionally, the FDA inspects all commercial manufacturing facilities before approving a New Drug Application for a drug manufactured at those sites. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to pass the FDA inspection, our clinical trials, the potential approval and eventual commercialization of our products may be delayed. If we are able to bring our potential products to market, we will face a number of risks outside of our control as we may be dependent on others to market our products, as well as to facilitate demand for our products Even if we are able to develop our potential products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we have no experience in marketing or selling any of our proposed products. We currently do not have a marketing or sales staff. If we are successful in achieving FDA approval of any product candidate, including any product that we may acquire as a result of our business development efforts, we will need to build a commercial capability. The development of a marketing and sales capability will require significant expenditures, management resources and time. We may be unable to build such a sales force, the cost of establishing such a sales force may exceed any product revenues, or our marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We may not be able to find a suitable sales and marketing partner for our products. If we are unable to successfully establish a sales and marketing capability in a timely manner or find suitable sales and marketing partners, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Even if we are able to develop a sales force or find a suitable marketing partner, we may not successfully penetrate the markets for any of our proposed products. We intend to enter into distribution and marketing agreements with other companies for our products outside the United States and do not anticipate establishing our own foreign sales and marketing capabilities for any of our potential products in the foreseeable future. If any of our foreign marketing partners do not perform under future agreements, we would need to identify an alternative marketing and distribution partner, or market this product ourselves, and we may not be able to establish adequate marketing capabilities for this product. 9 Our success is dependent on acceptance of our products. We cannot assure you that our products will achieve significant market acceptance among patients, physicians or third-party payers, even if we obtain necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. Failure to achieve significant market acceptance will harm our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effect that such potential proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our approved products, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market Any product for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data collection and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. After approval of a product, we will have significant ongoing regulatory compliance obligations. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in penalties or other actions, including removal of a product or products from the market. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours non-competitive or obsolete There are many entities, both public and private, including well-known, large pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions engaged in developing pharmaceuticals for neurological and other applications similar to those that may be targeted by us. Competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective and less costly than any that we develop and also may prove to be more successful in the manufacturing and marketing of products, which would render the products that we develop non-competitive or obsolete. Furthermore, many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in drug development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals, and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly and more effectively than we do. Any product that we successfully develop and for which we gain regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Accordingly, important competitive factors, in addition to completion of clinical testing and the receipt of regulatory approval, will include product efficacy, safety, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of supply, marketing and sales capacity, reimbursement coverage, pricing and patent protection. We are aware that other companies are conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials for products that could compete with products we intend to acquire or develop. See "Item 1. Business -- Competition" for a more detailed discussion of the competition we face. We may need to secure additional financing to acquire and complete the development and commercialization of our products At December 31, 2008 we had cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, and restricted investments of approximately $56.8 million. We do not intend to initiate Phase 2 clinical trials for AV411 for neuropathic pain without a partner. We anticipate that our existing capital resources as of December 31, 2008, after considering our anticipated decrease in spending as a result of the restructuring and staff reduction announced on November 3, 2008, will be adequate to fund our operating needs for the foreseeable future while we evaluate other strategic opportunities. However, if we are successful entering into a merger and acquisition transaction or in acquiring additional product candidates or pursuing additional indications for compounds in our portfolio, we may require additional funding to complete the research and development activities necessary to fully develop and commercialize such products. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: how successful, if at all, we are at entering into a merger and acquisition transaction, acquiring additional compounds, and the nature of the consideration we pay for acquired compounds; the costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; 10 the costs involved in obtaining licenses to patented technologies from third-parties that may be needed to commercialize our product candidates; continued scientific progress in research and development programs; the scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; competing technological developments; the cost of manufacturing our product candidates for clinical trials and sales; the costs of sales, marketing and commercialization activities; and other factors which may not be within our control. If we are unable to partner with third parties to develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval, or monetize existing development assets, and we determine to continue the development of our product portfolio, we may need to obtain additional funding before we will be able to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. The U.S. capital markets have recently experienced significant volatility, compounded by the risk of a U.S. or global recession, which is expected to impair issuers’ ability to raise capital in the near term. In addition, the substantial reduction in the availability of credit increases the risk that traditional credit facilities may not be available or may not be available on favorable terms. We cannot assure our investors that we will be able to enter into financing arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. Without additional funding, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, and we may be required to enter into collaborative arrangements at an earlier stage of development on less favorable terms than we would otherwise elect. If we require additional capital that we are unable to obtain on favorable terms, it may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. We may not currently have adequate personnel to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates and we may be unable to attract and retain the qualified employees, consultants and advisors we need to be successful In November 2008, we announced a significant restructuring, including a reduction in force, aimed at preserving cash and reassessing strategic opportunities. In connection with this reduction in force, we eliminated approximately 27 positions, or 70 percent of our workforce, thereby reducing our continuing staff level to 10 employees. As a result, although we have retained certain key members of our senior management and scientific staff, we may not have adequate personnel to monetize and out-license our current assets or perform additional research and development efforts, or develop and commercialize any of our products. Our ability to recruit and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, if needed, may be negatively impacted as a result of our response to the negative results and subsequent termination of our AV650 program. In addition, biotechnology and pharmaceutical personnel with these skills are in high demand. As a result, competition for and retention of personnel, particularly for employees with technical expertise, is intense and the turnover rate for these people can be high. We also have historically relied on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategies. A majority of these scientific advisors have been engaged by us on a consulting basis and may be employed on a full-time basis by others. We have limited control over the activities of these scientific collaborators which often limit their availability to us. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could delay our progress and harm our business. In addition, some of these collaborators may have consulting or other advisory arrangements with other entities that may conflict or compete with their obligations to us. We may not currently have adequate personnel to successfully maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our reduction in force may impact the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, including certain segregation of duties and other controls to reduce the risk that a potential material misstatement of the financial statements could occur without being prevented or detected. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, maintain investor confidence and prevent fraud. As a result of our restructuring, we have significantly reduced our number of employees and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to retain employees with the requisite expertise to maintain an effective system of internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to report on, and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. At December 31, 2008, we were compliant and have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. Accordingly, we continue to incur expenses and will devote management resources to Section 404 compliance as necessary. Further, effective internal controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If our internal controls and procedures become ineffective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed and current and potential shareholders may not have confidence in our financial reporting. 11 We face the risk of liability claims which may exceed the scope or amount of our insurance coverage The manufacture and sale of medical products entails significant risk of liability claims. We currently carry liability insurance; however, we cannot assure you that this coverage will remain in place or that this coverage will be adequate to protect us from all liabilities which we might incur in connection with the use of our products in clinical trials or the future use or sale of our products upon commercialization. In addition, we may require increased liability coverage as additional products are used in clinical trials and commercialized. This insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms in the future, if at all. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. We must indemnify some of our licensors against any liability claims brought against them arising out of products developed by us under these licenses. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, and we may incur substantial additional costs to comply with environmental laws in connection with the operation of our research and manufacturing facilities We use radioactive materials and other hazardous substances in our research and development operations. As a result, we are potentially subject to substantial liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages they may cause. In addition, clean up costs associated with radioactivity or other hazardous substances, and related damages or liabilities could be significant and could harm our business. We do not believe that our current level of use of these controlled substances will require any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the next few years. We are also required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety which could impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. If we were to fail to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations we could require substantial additional capital. Prior to 2006, our research and development activities were primarily focused on gene delivery products, which raises uncertainty about our ability to develop and commercialize more conventional small molecule product candidates effectively We have limited experience in developing or commercializing conventional small molecule product candidates. If we are unable to effectively develop any of the products in our development portfolio or any new products we acquire, it would significantly reduce our ability to create commercial opportunities for such products. In October 2008, we announced that the top-line data from our AV650 trial for the treatment of spasticity in patients with multiple sclerosis did not meet its primary endpoint, as a result of which we have discontinued all AV650-related activities. The gene therapy technology we sold to Genzyme Corporation is new and developing rapidly and Genzyme Corporation may face delays in developing products based on technologies included in our assignment agreement, in which case we may not receive any additional milestone, sublicensing fees or royalty revenues in connection with the agreement Development of drug products, including gene therapy products, is unpredictable and is subject to many risks and uncertainties. We are not aware of any gene therapy products that Genzyme Corporation has fully developed or for which it has received regulatory approval for commercial sale in the United States. As such, we face the risk that they will not be able to develop or receive regulatory approval for commercial sale of any product candidates that might utilize technologies included in our assignment agreement. Therefore, we may never receive any additional milestone, sublicensing fees or royalty revenues in connection with our previous work on the gene therapy technology we sold to Genzyme Corporation. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success is partly dependent upon our ability to effectively protect our proprietary rights, which we may not be able to do Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to obtain patents and licenses to patent rights, preserve trade secrets, to obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act for our products for which we are not able to obtain patent protection, as discussed below, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. If we are not successful in these endeavors, our business will be substantially impaired. To date, we have filed a number of patent applications in the United States relating to technologies we have developed or co-developed. In addition, we have acquired licenses to one patent and some pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee that patents will issue from these applications or that any patent will issue on technology arising from additional research or, if patents do issue, that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect our technologies. 12 The patent application process takes several years and entails considerable expense. The failure to obtain patent protection on the technologies underlying some of our proposed products may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the scope of patent protection for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products, and we expect that administrative proceedings, litigation, or both may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of our and others’ patents. These proceedings or litigation may require a significant commitment of our resources in the future. If patents can be obtained, we cannot assure you that any of these patents will provide us with any competitive advantage. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us, and patents may be invalidated or held unenforceable in litigation. In our AV411 program, the composition-of-matter patent on the active compound has expired. We have filed and own patent applications on the use of AV411 for the indications for which we are developing the product, rather than more traditional composition-of-matter patent claims on the active ingredient itself. However, we cannot assure you that these patent applications, even if they one day issue as patents, will effectively prevent others from marketing the same drug for the indications currently claimed by our patent applications. We are aware that Medicinova is conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials for a product that contains the active compound contained in our AV411 product for use with multiple sclerosis. We also rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. We cannot be certain that these measures will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. In addition, the laws of a number of foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our intellectual property successfully. We may not be able to patent some formulations of products in development and may not be able to obtain adequate protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act to prevent generics from copying our product candidates AV411 is a molecule in the public domain, and other products we may acquire may also be in the public domain. While we are working, and expect to work, to obtain patent protection for our formulations, manufacturing processes, and uses of these molecules, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. In cases where no patent protection can be obtained, limited regulatory exclusivity providing protection against generic competition can be obtained under the Hatch-Waxman Act if we are the first to obtain regulatory approval to market these compounds in the U.S. There is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. For example, Medicinova is conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials for a product that contains the active compound contained in our AV411 product for use with multiple sclerosis, and if Medicinova is able to obtain “new chemical entity” designation for this compound, it would limit the extent of the protection we might otherwise be able to obtain against generic competition under the Hatch-Waxman Act for AV411. Biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies with greater financial and personnel resources may be able to obtain regulatory approval to market one or more of these compounds prior to our obtaining such approval. Failure to obtain patent protection or regulatory exclusivity will adversely impact our ability to commercialize our products and realize a positive return on our investment. Other persons may assert rights to our proprietary technology, which could be costly to contest or settle Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our products, technologies, or other matters. Any claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, can be time-consuming and expensive to defend or prosecute and resolve. There may be third-party patents and other intellectual property relevant to our products and technology which are not known to us. We have not been accused of infringing any third party's patent rights or other intellectual property, but we cannot assure you that litigation asserting claims will not be initiated, that we would prevail in any litigation, or that we would be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the outcome is favorable to us. In addition, to the extent outside collaborators apply technological information developed independently by them or by others to our product development programs or apply our technologies to other projects, disputes may arise as to the ownership of proprietary rights to these technologies. We may be required to obtain rights to proprietary genes and other technologies to further develop our business, which may not be available or may be costly We currently investigate and use some gene sequences or proteins encoded by those sequences, including the IL-10 gene, and manufacturing processes that are or may become patented by others. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses to these gene sequences or proteins or other technology in order to test, use or market products. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on terms favorable to us, if at all. In connection with our efforts to obtain rights to these gene sequences or proteins or other technology, we may find it necessary to convey rights to our technology to others. Some of our products may require the use of multiple proprietary technologies. Consequently, we may be required to make cumulative royalty payments to several third parties. These cumulative royalties could become commercially prohibitive. We may not be able to successfully negotiate these royalty adjustments to a cost effective level, if at all. 13 Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile, and as a result investing in our common stock is very risky From January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2008, our stock price has fluctuated between a range of $0.49 and $7.44 per share. In October 2008, following our announcement that the top-line data from our AV650 trial for the treatment of spasticity in patients with multiple sclerosis did not meet its primary endpoint, our stock price fell to $0.51 per share. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including announcements of: announcements by us regarding progress in evaluating strategic opportunities; developments of significant acquisitions or in relationships with corporate partners; announcements by significant stockholders of Avigen regarding their opinions of our Board’s business plan; technological innovations or regulatory approvals; results of clinical trials; new products by us or our competitors; developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; achievement or failure to achieve some developmental milestones, as was the case when AV650 failed to meet its primary endpoint; public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical products; health care or reimbursement policy changes by governments or insurance companies; announcements by us regarding financing transactions and/or future sales of equity securities; or changes in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the shares of biotechnology and health care companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The recent volatility in the U.S. capital markets and the risk of a U.S. or global recession has further compounded this risk. These broad market and industry fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline dramatically. Our largest stockholders may take actions that are contrary to all of our stockholders' interests A group of affiliated stockholders collectively hold approximately 29% of our outstanding stock. This stockholder’s interests could differ from the interests of other stockholders, and they could be in a position to affect us in a way that is detrimental to the interests of other stockholders. Sales by this stockholder of our common stock could adversely affect the market price for our stock. In addition, their actions and votes would be important, and possibly determinative, in the event we consider a transaction that requires stockholder approval or in the event a third party makes a tender offer or a hostile take-over offer for our outstanding shares. As a result, this group of stockholders may oppose a transaction that our board of directors and management submit to stockholders and believe is in all of our stockholders' best interests. Anti-takeover effects of some of our charter provisions and Delaware law may negatively affect the ability of a potential buyer to purchase some or all of our stock at an otherwise advantageous price, which may limit the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock Some provisions of our charter and Delaware law may negatively affect the ability of a potential buyer to attempt a takeover of Avigen, which may have a negative effect on the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has established a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” which makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the outstanding voting stock of Avigen. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, and each year on a rotating basis the directors of one class are elected for a three-year term. This provision could have the effect of making it less likely that a third party would attempt to obtain control of Avigen through Board representation. Furthermore, some other provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. 14 We may not be able to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock To maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market we are required to meet certain listing requirements, including a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. Our common stock traded as low as $0.51 per share in 2008. Under normal circumstances, companies traded on Nasdaq would receive a deficiency notice from Nasdaq if their common stock has traded below the $1.00 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days. Due to market conditions, however, on October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced suspension of the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price, with the suspension to remain in place until Monday, April 20, 2009. If our common stock trades below the $1.00 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days following the end of Nasdaq’s enforcement suspension, we would likely receive a deficiency notice. Following receipt of a deficiency notice, we expect we would have 180 calendar days to regain compliance by having our common stock trade over the $1.00 minimum bid price for at least a 10-day period. If we were to fail to meet the minimum bid price for at least 10 consecutive days during the grace period, our common stock could be delisted. Even if we are able to comply with the minimum bid requirement, there is no assurance that in the future we will continue to satisfy Nasdaq listing requirements, with the result that our common stock may be delisted. Should our common stock be delisted from Nasdaq, and the delisting determination was based solely on non-compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price, we may consider applying to transfer our common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market provided that we satisfy all criteria for initial inclusion on such market other than the minimum bid price rule. In the event of such a transfer, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules provide that we would have an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price rule while on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market and The NASDAQ Capital Market, it would likely be more difficult to trade in or obtain accurate quotations as to the market price of our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect the market price and market liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise necessary capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 