Item 1A. Risk Factors - -------- ------------ We have not been profitable for the past few years. We have had a large decline in sales this year and we have not been profitable for the past few years. Our new product initiatives may not be enough to allow us to regain profitability. Our line of credit expires in March 2007. We are dependent on our line of credit to provide funds for our working capital needs and our investment in new product development. If we are unable to renew or replace the line, we may be unable to continue with our new products and this could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue. We are dependent on the paper currency validator and gaming market. In fiscal 2006, 79% of our sales were to the gaming market. Any significant technological advances to increased use of smart cards could cause a reduction in our revenues. Any changes in government regulations, as we experienced in Russia, could have an adverse effect on our revenue. 15 We are dependent on a small number of customers. In fiscal 2006, one customer accounted for 28% of our sales. The loss of this customer could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue. Some product components have a long lead time. Some of our product components may take in excess of 12 weeks to obtain and a shortage of those parts may have a negative effect on our revenue. We have a risk that some of our inventory may become obsolete. We hold inventory for warranty and repairs and replacements. We also anticipate sales volumes from our customers due to lead times required to build inventory. There is a risk that orders may be less than anticipated for certain product models and that we may have excess inventory or inventory which becomes obsolete. We may have difficulty competing with larger companies that offer similar products which may result in decreased revenue We believe that we have a very competitive product; however, many of our competitors have greater resources than we have and can invest more in product development and marketing or develop pricing strategies which may adversely effect our revenues. We are dependent on management and our engineers and a loss of key employees could disrupt our business and our financial performance could suffer. Our business is largely dependent upon our senior executive officers, Messrs. Stephen Nevitt, our president and chief executive officer and William McMahon, our chief financial officer. Although we have employment agreements with these officers, the employment agreements do not guarantee that those officers will continue as our employees. Our agreements with Messrs. Nevitt and McMahon are scheduled to expire on November 7, 2007 and April 16, 2007, respectively. Our business may be adversely affected if any key management personnel or other key employees left our employ. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - -------- ------------------------- Not applicable. 