Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We believe these are all the material risks currently facing our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.Future revenue and earnings growth depends on our ability to execute our growth strategies.Our Core U.S. store base is mature. As a result, our same store sales have increased more slowly than in historical periods, or in some cases, decreased. Accordingly, we are focused on acquiring new customers through sources other than our existing U.S. rent-to-own stores, as well as seeking additional distribution channels for our products and services. Our primary growth strategies are our RAC Acceptance and International segments. Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into channels outside our traditional rent-to-own store model and expand internationally. This growth places significant demands on management and operational systems. If we are unable to successfully execute these growth strategies, our revenue and earnings may grow more slowly or even decrease.We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our Core U.S. operating segment.Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Core U.S. segment, which comprised approximately 86% of our consolidated net revenues and a substantial portion of our net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2012. Any significant decrease in the financial performance of the Core U.S. segment may also have a material adverse impact on our ability to implement our growth strategies.Our RAC Acceptance segment depends on the success of our third-party retail partners and our continued relationship with them.Our RAC Acceptance segment revenues depend in part on the ability of unaffiliated third-party retailers to attract customers. In addition, in most cases, our agreements with such third-party retailers may be terminated at the retailer's election. The failure of our third-party retail partners to maintain quality and consistency in their operations and their ability to continue to provide products and services, or the loss of the relationship with any of these third-party retailers and an inability to replace them, could cause our RAC Acceptance segment to lose customers, substantially decreasing the revenues and earnings of our RAC Acceptance segment. This could adversely affect our financial results and slow our overall growth. In 2012, approximately 26% of the total revenue of the RAC Acceptance segment originated at our RAC Acceptance kiosks located in stores operated by a nationwide furniture retailer and 81 of its licensees, collectively. An additional approximately 41% of the total revenues in the RAC Acceptance segment in 2012 was generated by our RAC Acceptance kiosks located in stores operated by three of our other third-party retail partners. We may be unable to continue growing the RAC Acceptance segment if we are unable to find third-party retailers willing to partner with us or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third-party retailers acceptable to us.Our operations in Mexico are subject to political or regulatory changes and significant changes in the economic environment and other concerns.We opened our first store in Mexico in October 2010, and operated 90 stores in Mexico as of December 31, 2012. Our growth plans include significant expansion in our International segment. Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico could adversely affect our operations there, which could negatively impact our growth plans. Mexico is also subject to certain potential risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control, such as violence, social unrest, enforcement of property rights and public safety and security that could restrict or eliminate our ability to open new or operate some or all of our locations in Mexico, or significantly reduce customer traffic or demand. In addition, our assets, investments in, earnings from and dividends from our Mexican subsidiaries must be translated to U.S. dollars from the Mexican peso. Accordingly, we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations of the exchange rate for the Mexican peso which may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.The continued expansion of our International segment, including into new international markets, presents unique challenges which may subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political, cultural and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we may operate in the future, which could adversely affect our anticipated growth.10Expansion of our International segment, including into new international markets, is one of our primary growth objectives. As these operations grow, they may require greater management and financial resources. International operations require the integration of personnel with varying cultural and business backgrounds and an understanding of the relevant differences in the cultural, legal and regulatory environments. In addition, these operations are subject to the potential risks of changing economic and financial conditions in each of its markets, exchange rate fluctuations, legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, tariffs and trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, failure to understand the local culture and market, difficulties in protecting intellectual property, the burden of complying with complex foreign laws, including anti-competition regulations, tax laws and financial accounting standards, and adverse local economic, political and social conditions in certain countries. If, as we continue to expand our International segment, we are unable to successfully replicate our business model due to these and other commercial and regulatory constraints present in our international markets, our growth may be adversely affected.Our transactions are regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal and state laws and regulations, which may require significant compliance costs and expose us to litigation. Any negative change in these laws or the passage of unfavorable new laws could require us to alter our business practices in a manner that may be materially adverse to us.Currently, 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have passed laws that regulate rental purchase transactions as separate and distinct from credit sales. One additional state has a retail installment sales statute that excludes leases, including rent-to-own transactions, from its coverage if the lease provides for more than a nominal purchase price at the end of the rental period. The specific rental purchase laws generally require certain contractual and advertising disclosures. They also provide varying levels of substantive consumer protection, such as requiring a grace period for late fees and contract reinstatement rights in the event the rental purchase agreement is terminated. The rental purchase laws of ten states limit the total amount that may be charged over the life of a rental purchase agreement and the laws of four states limit the cash prices for which we may offer merchandise.Our consumer lease is governed by federal and state laws and regulations other than the applicable state rental purchase statute. The federal regulations applicable to the consumer lease require certain disclosures similar to the rent-to-own statutes, but are generally less restrictive as to pricing and other charges. Since the initial term of our consumer lease exceeds 90 days, this consumer lease is subject to regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Agency established under the Dodd-Frank Act. We currently utilize this consumer lease in four states.Similar to other consumer transactions, our rental purchase and consumer lease transactions are also governed by various federal and state consumer protection statutes. These consumer protection statutes, as well as the rental purchase statutes under which we operate, provide various consumer remedies, including monetary penalties, for violations. In our history, we have been the subject of litigation alleging that we have violated some of these statutory provisions.Although there is currently no comprehensive federal legislation regulating rental purchase transactions, adverse federal legislation may be enacted in the future. From time to time, both favorable and adverse legislation seeking to regulate our business has been introduced in Congress. In addition, various legislatures in the states where we currently do business may adopt new legislation or amend existing legislation that could require us to alter our business practices in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our reputation, ability to do business and operating results may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. Our International operations are subject to certain laws generally prohibiting companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. Our employees, contractors or agents may violate the policies and procedures we have implemented to ensure compliance with these laws. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and related shareholder lawsuits, could cause us to incur significant legal fees, and could damage our reputation.11We may be subject to legal proceedings from time to time which seek material damages. The costs we incur in defending ourselves or associated with settling any of these proceedings, as well as a material final judgment or decree against us, could materially adversely affect our financial condition by requiring the payment of the settlement amount, a judgment or the posting of a bond.In our history, we have defended class action lawsuits alleging various regulatory violations and have paid material amounts to settle such claims. Significant settlement amounts or final judgments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. The failure to pay any material judgment would be a default under our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes.Our operations are dependent on effective management information systems. Failure of these systems could negatively impact our ability to manage store operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We utilize integrated management information and control systems. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on these systems to effectively manage our financial and operational data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed, loss of data or any interruption of our information systems for a significant period of time could disrupt our business. If the information systems sustain repeated failures, we may not be able to manage our store operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are currently investing in the development of new point of sale systems and processes to further enhance our management information system. Such enhancements to or replacement of our management information system could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our core business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from disruptions of normal operating processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation of new technology. We can make no assurances that the costs of investments in our new point of sale systems and processes will not exceed estimates, that such systems and processes will be implemented without material disruption, or that such systems and processes will be as beneficial as predicted. If any of these events occur, our results of operations could be harmed.If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and employee information, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory enforcement and our business could be adversely impacted.We collect and store certain personal information provided to us by our customers and employees in the ordinary course of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or employee information. In addition, one of our employees, contractors or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer or employee information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, employees, regulators and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy laws, and costs incurred to prevent or remediate information security breaches, could adversely impact our business.Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us which may limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions. If a default were to occur, our lenders could accelerate the amounts of debt outstanding, and holders of our secured indebtedness could force us to sell our assets to satisfy all or a part of what is owed.Covenants under our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes restrict our ability to pay dividends and engage in various operational matters. In addition, covenants under our senior credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures or other investments, repurchase our outstanding debt or equity, pay dividends, withstand a future downturn in our business or in the economy, dispose of operations, engage in mergers, acquire additional stores or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. Various transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as specified acquisitions, are also subject to the consent of lenders under the senior credit facilities, which may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction.If a default were to occur, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could accelerate the amounts outstanding under the credit facilities. In addition, the lenders under these agreements could terminate their commitments to lend to us. If the lenders under these agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient liquid assets at that time to repay the 12amounts then outstanding under our indebtedness or be able to find additional alternative financing. Even if we could obtain additional alternative financing, the terms of the financing may not be favorable or acceptable to us.The existing indebtedness under our senior credit facilities is secured by substantially all of our assets. Should a default or acceleration of this indebtedness occur, the holders of this indebtedness could sell the assets to satisfy all or a part of what is owed.A change of control could accelerate our obligation to pay our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not have sufficient liquid assets at that time to repay these amounts.Under our senior credit facilities, an event of default would result if a third party became the beneficial owner of 35.0% or more of our voting stock or upon certain changes in the constitution of Rent-A-Center's Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2012, $387.5 million was outstanding under our senior credit facilities.Under the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, in the event of a change in control, we may be required to offer to purchase all of our outstanding senior unsecured notes at 101% of their original aggregate principal amount, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase. A change in control also would result in an event of default under our senior credit facilities, which would allow our lenders to accelerate indebtedness owed to them.If a specified change in control occurs and the lenders under our debt instruments accelerate these obligations, we may not have sufficient liquid assets to repay amounts outstanding under these agreements. Rent-A-Center's organizational documents and our debt instruments contain provisions that may prevent or deter another group from paying a premium over the market price to Rent-A-Center's stockholders to acquire its stock.Rent-A-Center's organizational documents contain provisions that classify its Board of Directors, authorize its Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock and establish advance notice requirements on its stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at meetings of the stockholders. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, Rent-A-Center is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law relating to business combinations. Our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes each contain various change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of control, would cause a default under those provisions. These provisions and arrangements could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer or other business combination or change of control involving us that could include a premium over the market price of Rent-A-Center's common stock that some or a majority of Rent-A-Center's stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.Rent-A-Center is a holding company and is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries.Rent-A-Center is a holding company, with no revenue generating operations and no assets other than its ownership interests in its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, Rent-A-Center is dependent on the cash flow generated by its direct and indirect operating subsidiaries and must rely on dividends or other intercompany transfers from its operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations, including the obligations under the senior credit facilities. The ability of Rent-A-Center's subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it is subject to applicable state laws. Should one or more of Rent-A-Center's subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make distributions, its ability to meet its ongoing obligations could be materially and adversely impacted.Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to recover your investment if our stock price declines.The price of our common stock has been volatile and can be expected to be significantly affected by factors such as:•our ability to meet market expectations with respect to the growth and profitability of each of our operating segments;•quarterly variations in our results of operations, which may be impacted by, among other things, changes in same store sales or when and how many locations we acquire or open;•quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations;•changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts; and•the stock price performance of comparable companies.In addition, the stock market as a whole has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many specialty retailers in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance.13Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our brand and operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.14Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.