Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We believe these are all the material risks currently facing our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Future revenue growth depends on our ability to identify and execute new growth strategies. We have a mature store base. As a result, our same store sales have increased more slowly than in historical periods, or in some cases, decreased. Our future growth will require that we successfully increase revenue in our rent-to-own stores, as well as seek to identify additional distribution channels for our products and services. If we are unable to identify and successfully implement these strategic growth initiatives, our earnings may grow more slowly or even decrease. Rent-to-own transactions are regulated by law in most states. Any adverse change in these laws or the passage of adverse new laws could expose us to litigation or require us to alter our business practices. As is the case with most businesses, we are subject to various governmental regulations, including in our case, regulations specifically regarding rent-to-own transactions. Currently, 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have passed laws that regulate rental purchase transactions as separate and distinct from credit sales. One additional state has a retail installment sales statute that excludes leases, including rent-to-own transactions, from its coverage if the lease provides for more than a nominal purchase price at the end of the rental period. The specific rental purchase laws generally require certain contractual and advertising disclosures. They also provide varying levels of substantive consumer protection, such as requiring a grace period for late fees and contract reinstatement rights in the event the rental purchase agreement is terminated. The rental purchase laws of ten states limit the total amount that may be charged over the life of a rental purchase agreement and the laws of four states limit the cash prices for which we may offer merchandise. Most states also regulate rental purchase transactions, as well as other consumer transactions, under various consumer protection statutes. The rental purchase statutes and 12 Table of Contents other consumer protection statutes provide various consumer remedies, including monetary penalties, for violations. In our history, we have been the subject of litigation alleging that we have violated some of these statutory provisions. Although there is currently no comprehensive federal legislation regulating rental purchase transactions, adverse federal legislation may be enacted in the future. From time to time, both favorable and adverse legislation seeking to regulate our business has been introduced in Congress. In addition, various legislatures in the states where we currently do business may adopt new legislation or amend existing legislation that could require us to alter our business practices. We may be subject to legal proceedings from time to time which seek material damages. The costs we incur in defending ourselves or associated with settling any of these proceedings, as well as a material final judgment or decree against us, could materially adversely affect our financial condition by requiring the payment of the settlement amount, a judgment or the posting of a bond. In our history, we have defended class action lawsuits alleging various regulatory violations and have paid material amounts to settle such claims. Significant settlement amounts or final judgments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. The failure to pay any material judgment would be a default under our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes. Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us which may limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions. If a default were to occur, our lenders could accelerate the amounts of debt outstanding, and holders of our secured indebtedness could force us to sell our assets to satisfy all or a part of what is owed. Covenants under our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes restrict our ability to pay dividends and engage in various operational matters. In addition, covenants under our senior credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures or other investments, repurchase our outstanding debt or equity, pay dividends, withstand a future downturn in our business or in the economy, dispose of operations, engage in mergers, acquire additional stores or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. Various transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as specified acquisitions, are also subject to the consent of lenders under the senior credit facilities, which may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction. If a default were to occur, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could accelerate the amounts outstanding under the credit facilities. In addition, the lenders under these agreements could terminate their commitments to lend to us. If the lenders under these agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient liquid assets at that time to repay the amounts then outstanding under our indebtedness or be able to find additional alternative financing. Even if we could obtain additional alternative financing, the terms of the financing may not be favorable or acceptable to us. The existing indebtedness under our senior credit facilities is secured by substantially all of our assets. Should a default or acceleration of this indebtedness occur, the holders of this indebtedness could sell the assets to satisfy all or a part of what is owed. A change of control could accelerate our obligation to pay our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not have sufficient liquid assets at that time to repay these amounts. Under our senior credit facilities, an event of default would result if a third party became the beneficial owner of 35.0% or more of our voting stock or upon certain changes in the constitution of Rent-A-Center’s Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2010, $401.1 million was outstanding under our senior credit facilities. Under the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, in the event of a change in control, we may be required to offer to purchase all of our outstanding senior unsecured notes at 101% of their original 13 Table of Contents aggregate principal amount, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase. A change in control also would result in an event of default under our senior credit facilities, which would allow our lenders to accelerate indebtedness owed to them. If a specified change in control occurs and the lenders under our debt instruments accelerate these obligations, we may not have sufficient liquid assets to repay amounts outstanding under these agreements. Rent-A-Center’s organizational documents and our debt instruments contain provisions that may prevent or deter another group from paying a premium over the market price to Rent-A-Center’s stockholders to acquire its stock. Rent-A-Center’s organizational documents contain provisions that classify its Board of Directors, authorize its Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock and establish advance notice requirements on its stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at meetings of the stockholders. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, Rent-A-Center is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law relating to business combinations. Our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes each contain various change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of control, would cause a default under those provisions. These provisions and arrangements could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer or other business combination or change of control involving us that could include a premium over the market price of Rent-A-Center’s common stock that some or a majority of Rent-A-Center’s stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Rent-A-Center is a holding company and is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries. Rent-A-Center is a holding company, with no revenue generating operations and no assets other than its ownership interests in its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, Rent-A-Center is dependent on the cash flow generated by its direct and indirect operating subsidiaries and must rely on dividends or other intercompany transfers from its operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations, including the obligations under the senior credit facilities. The ability of Rent-A-Center’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it is subject to applicable state laws. Should one or more of Rent-A-Center’s subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make distributions, its ability to meet its ongoing obligations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to recover your investment if our stock price declines. The price of our common stock has been volatile and can be expected to be significantly affected by factors such as: • quarterly variations in our results of operations, which may be impacted by, among other things, changes in same store sales or when and how many locations we acquire or open; • quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts; and • the stock price performance of comparable companies. In addition, the stock market as a whole has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many specialty retailers in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our brand and operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter 14 Table of Contents how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our continued expansion into international markets presents unique challenges which may subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political, cultural and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We entered the Canadian market in 2004 and operate 18 stores in Canada as of December 31, 2010. We opened our first store in Mexico in October 2010, and now operate five stores in Mexico as of December 31, 2010. As these operations grow, they may require greater management and financial resources. International operations require the integration of personnel with varying cultural and business backgrounds and an understanding of the relevant differences in the cultural, legal and regulatory environments. In addition, these operations are subject to the potential risks of changing economic and financial conditions in each of its markets, legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, tariffs and trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, failure to understand the local culture and market, difficulties in protecting intellectual property, the burden of complying with foreign laws, including tax laws and financial accounting standards, and adverse local economic, political and social conditions in certain countries. In addition, we are subject to exchange rate risks in the ordinary course of our business as a result of our operations in Canada and Mexico and are, therefore, exposed to risks associated with the fluctuations of foreign currencies, in particular U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and Mexican pesos. Such foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Our operations are dependent on effective management information systems. Failure of these systems could negatively impact our ability to manage store operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We utilize integrated management information and control systems. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on these systems to effectively manage our financial and operational data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed, loss of data or any interruption of our information systems for a significant period of time could disrupt our business. If the information systems sustain repeated failures, we may not be able to manage our store operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently investing in the development of new point of sale systems and processes to further enhance our management information system. Such enhancements to or replacement of our management information system could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our core business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from disruptions of normal operating processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation of new information systems. We can make no assurances that the costs of investments in our information systems will not exceed estimates, that the systems will be implemented without material disruption, or that the systems will be as beneficial as predicted. If any of these events occur, our results of operations could be harmed. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and co-worker information, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory enforcement and our business could be adversely impacted. The increasing costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws, and costs resulting from consumer fraud, could adversely impact our business. We also routinely possess sensitive customer and co-worker information and, while we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect that information, if our security procedures and controls were compromised, it could harm our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 