Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks, many beyond our control, which could cause our results to differ significantly from management’s expectations. Some of these risk factors are described below. Any factor described in this report could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Risks About Our Company The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we remain well capitalized and have not suffered from liquidity issues, we are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we could be affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse affect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a continued deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond those which are provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in a variety of consequences including the following: • increases in loan delinquencies; • increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures; • decreases in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our liquidity position; and • decreases in the value of the collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers’ borrowing power. Although the general economic environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that it will continue to improve. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Disruptions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since mid-2007, global financial markets have suffered substantial disruption, illiquidity and volatility. These circumstances resulted in significant government assistance to a number of major financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions and have increased the uncertainty we face in managing our business. If these disruptions continue or other disruptions in the financial markets or the global or our regional economic environment arise, they could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition, including our liquidity position, and may affect our ability to access capital. The U.S. government’s plans to stabilize the financial markets may not be effective. In response to the recent volatility in the financial markets, the U.S. government has enacted certain legislation and regulatory programs to foster stability. There can be no assurance that the impact of such legislation and the various programs created thereunder on the financial markets will be sufficient to produce the desired results. The failure of the U.S. government to fully execute the programs it has already developed, or to implement expeditiously other remedial economic and financial legislation that may be needed, could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory proposals and changes in response to recent turmoil in the financial markets, including the Dodd-Frank Act, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The banking industry is heavily regulated. We are subject to examinations, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors, not shareholders. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Federal economic and monetary policies may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, 16 Table of Contents make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry is being considered in the U.S. Congress, including, among other things, the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate financial service providers and financial products. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has proposed guidance on incentive compensation at the banking organizations it regulates and the Treasury Department and the federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements for banking organizations. Complying with any new legislative or regulatory requirements, and any programs established thereunder, by federal and state governments to address the current economic crisis could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, our ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available and our ability to maintain our dividend. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, implements a variety of far-reaching changes. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business, including: • Requiring the FRB to establish standards for determining whether interchange fees charged by certain financial institutions are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by such institutions; • Imposition of additional costs and fees; • Establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; • Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks; and • Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. Many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the CFPB is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions, as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes, may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations (including compliance costs), require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and/or require us to raise additional regulatory capital. including These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums or special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 17 Table of Contents We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. The Company and IBERIABANK are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital which each must maintain. From time to time, regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee and implemented by the FRB, we likely will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels of to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Proposed rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the FRB the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuer’s fraud prevention policies. The FRB has requested comment on a proposed rule which would take effect on July 21, 2011 and which, if enacted, would significantly impact the amount of interchange fees collected. The proposed rule contains two alternative restrictions on the permissible level of interchange fees: a uniform restriction of 12 cents per transaction and an issuer-specific restriction containing a safe harbor of 7 cents per transaction and a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions, and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than the 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the FRB’s study on interchange transactions. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the proposed rule would be applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, and do not include adjustments associated with costs resulting from compliance with the issuer’s fraud prevention policies, which are expected to be included at a later date. The proposed rule would also prohibit issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to: (1) one network; or (2) two or more networks that are owned, controlled or operated by affiliates or networks affiliated with the issuer. To implement the network exclusivity restrictions of the proposed rule, the FRB has offered two alternative methods for comment. One alternative prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of payment card networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. The other alternative prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks for each method by which a transaction may be authorized. In 2010, IBERIABANK collected $1.9 million in interchange fee income, and without mitigating actions this amount could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Our recent growth and financial performance will be negatively impacted if we are unable to execute our growth strategy. Our stated growth strategy is to grow organically and supplement that growth with select acquisitions. Over the last few years, we have continued to fill out our Louisiana franchise by adding de novo branches in attractive markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage and will continue to do so. In the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we implemented a branch expansion initiative whereby we opened banking offices in various southern Louisiana communities. Our success depends primarily on generating loans and deposits of acceptable risk and expense. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in continuing our organic, or internal, growth strategy. Since it depends upon economic conditions, our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, our ability to fund growth at reasonable cost, sufficient capital, competitive factors, banking laws, and other factors. Supplementing our internal growth through acquisitions is an important part of our strategic focus. Since 1995, approximately 66% of our asset growth has been through acquisitions, or external growth. Our acquisition 18 Table of Contents efforts focus on select markets and targeted entities in Louisiana and most recently in selected markets we consider to be contiguous, or natural extensions, to our current markets. These selected markets include Arkansas, where we completed acquisitions of Pulaski Investment Corporation and Pocahontas Bancorp, Inc. in 2007, and ANB Financial, N.A. in 2008. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. Our issuance of additional securities will dilute existing shareholders’ equity interest in us and may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue making acquisitions, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all. We cannot be certain as to our ability to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities without increased expenses and higher levels of nonperforming assets. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances, which may adversely affect earnings, shareholder returns, and our efficiency ratio. Increases in operating expenses or nonperforming assets may decrease our earnings and the value of our common stock. In addition to the normal operating challenges inherent in managing a larger financial institution, each of our acquisitions and potential future acquisitions is subject to appropriate regulatory approval. Our regulators may require that we demonstrate that we have appropriately integrated our prior acquisitions, or any future acquisitions we may do, before permitting us to engage in any future material acquisitions. FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities may not become available and increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on failed bank transactions on terms we consider to be acceptable. A part of our near-term business strategy is to pursue failing banks that the FDIC plans to place in receivership. The FDIC may not place banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Failed bank transactions are attractive opportunities in part because of loss sharing arrangements with the FDIC that limit the acquirer’s downside risk on the purchased loan portfolio and, apart from our assumption of deposit liabilities, we have significant discretion as to the non-deposit liabilities that we assume. In addition, assets purchased from the FDIC are marked to their fair value and in many cases there is little or no addition to goodwill arising from an FDIC-assisted transaction. The bidding process for failing banks could become very competitive and the increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on terms we consider to be acceptable. Like most banking organizations, our business is highly susceptible to credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of December 31, 2010, our total loan portfolio was approximately $6.0 billion, or 60% of total assets. The major components of our loan portfolio include 69% of commercial loans, both real estate and business, 10% of mortgage loans comprised primarily of residential 1-4 family mortgage loans, and 21% consumer loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment loan portfolio and commercial loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market areas. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. A related risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or otherwise significantly reduce its value as security, or could expose us to remediation liabilities as the lender. Our loan portfolio has and will continue to be affected by the on-going correction in residential real estate prices and reduced levels of home sales. There has been a general slowdown in housing in some of our market areas, reflecting declining prices and excess inventories of houses to be sold, particularly impacting borrowers in our Northwest Arkansas and Memphis markets. As a result, home builders have shown signs of financial deterioration. A soft residential housing market, 19 Table of Contents increased delinquency rates, and a weakened secondary credit market have affected the overall mortgage industry. We expect the home builder market to continue to be volatile and anticipate continuing pressure on the home builder segment in the coming months. We make credit and reserve decisions based on the current conditions of borrowers or projects combined with our expectations for the future. If the slowdown in the housing market continues, we could experience higher charge-offs and delinquencies beyond that which is provided in the allowance for loan losses. As such, our earnings could be adversely affected through a higher than anticipated provision for loan losses. At December 31, 2010, we had: • $834.8 million of home equity loans and lines, representing 13.8% of total loans and leases. • $631.4 million in residential real estate loans, representing 10.5% of total loans and leases. Adjustable-rate mortgages, primarily mortgages that have a fixed rate for the first 3 to 5 years and then adjust annually, comprised 47.8% of this portfolio. • $51.3 million of loans to single family home builders, including loans made to both middle market and small business home builders. These loans represented less than 1% of total loans and leases. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. The determination of the allowance for loan losses, which represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio, involves a high degree of judgment and complexity. Our policy is to establish reserves for estimated losses on delinquent and other problem loans when it is determined that losses are expected to be incurred on such loans. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on various factors, including an evaluation of the portfolio, past loss experience, current economic conditions, the volume and type of lending conducted by us, composition of the portfolio, the amount of our classified assets, seasoning of the loan portfolio, the status of past due principal and interest payments and other relevant factors. Changes in such estimates may have a significant impact on our financial statements. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or other loans or investments. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other consumer loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of a material amount of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming assets. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in: a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses or an increase in loan charge-offs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease net interest income and net income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is affected by changes in market interest rates, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate risk model indicated we are asset sensitive, meaning interest rate changes would be expected to impact our asset yields more than our liability costs. 20 Table of Contents Changes in market interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, unemployment, the money supply, international events, and events in world financial markets. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, but interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. Changes in the market interest rates for types of products and services in our markets also may vary significantly from location to location and over time based upon competition and local or regional economic factors. If we or our banks or holding company were unable to borrow funds through access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or the operating cash needs to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of our banks is used to make loans and leases to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors. Management and the Investment Committee regularly monitor the overall liquidity position of IBERIABANK and the holding company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Management and the Investment Committee also establish policies and monitor guidelines to diversify IBERIABANK’s funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one market source. Funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. IBERIABANK is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) System, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include sales or securitizations of loans, our ability to acquire additional national market, non-core deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. IBERIABANK also can borrow from the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Amounts available under our existing credit facilities as of December 31, 2010, consist of $1.5 billion in Federal Home Loan Bank notes and $115.0 million in the form of federal funds and other lines of credit. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while we expand. Similar to other large corporations, in our case, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company and exposure to external events. We are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones depends on the functionality of our technology systems. Additionally, our ability to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We 21 Table of Contents also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into our existing businesses. Acquisitions or mergers entail risks which could negatively affect our operations. Acquisitions and mergers, particularly the integration of companies that have previously been operated separately, involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition or merger partners; • difficulties in assimilating operations of the acquired institution and implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; • our ability to finance an acquisition and maintain adequate regulatory capital; • diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; • risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; • potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; • loss of key employees of the acquired institution; and • exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. Any of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. Our failure to successfully integrate current and future acquisitions and manage our growth could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations. Although we have employed a significant number of additional executive officers and other key personnel in recent months, our success continues to depend in large part on the retention of a limited number of key management, lending and other banking personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities’ managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations. The unexpected loss of key senior managers, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We compete for loans, deposits, title business and investment dollars with other banks and other financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, private lenders and title companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than ours. Credit unions have federal tax exemptions, which may allow them to offer lower rates on loans and higher rates on deposits than taxpaying financial institutions such as commercial banks. In addition, non-depository institution competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation applicable to institutions that offer federally insured deposits. Other institutions may have other competitive advantages in particular markets or may be willing to accept lower profit margins on certain products. These differences in resources, regulation, competitive advantages, and business strategy may decrease our net interest margin, may increase our operating costs, and may make it harder for us to compete profitably. 22 Table of Contents Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices and/or our financial health could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. We carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions. We may be subject to increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation. We and IBERIABANK have been named from time to time as defendants in class actions and other litigation relating to our business and activities. Litigation may include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation is discussed in Note 20 “Commitments and Contingencies” to the consolidated financial statements, and in Part I, Item 3 (“Legal Proceeding”) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in government regulations and legislation could limit our future performance and growth. The banking industry is heavily regulated. We are subject to examinations, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors, not shareholders. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policies may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our offices are primarily concentrated in selected markets in Louisiana Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Tennessee and Texas. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following: • an increase in loan delinquencies; • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; 23 Table of Contents • a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. If we do not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, our financial performance may suffer. We face substantial competition for deposit, credit, title and trust relationships, as well as other sources of funding in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, title companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by us. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that financial institutions have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, our financial performance and your investment in our common stock could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Like other coastal areas, some of our markets in Louisiana are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events. The oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico and legislative and regulatory responses thereto could have a negative impact on the Company’s customers and, indirectly, result in a negative impact on our earnings. In late April 2010, the explosion and collapse of a drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico off the Louisiana coast caused a major oil spill that has now been contained. In response to the oil spill, the U.S. Government imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling operations and issued new regulations intended to improve the safety of these operations. A moratorium on new wells was ultimately rescinded in October 2010, and the industry is in the process of working to comply with these new requirements. The U.S. Congress currently is considering legislation that could impact offshore drillers’ operations. The Company has identified and communicated with customers that may be affected by the oil spill and its effects. The Company currently believes that its exposure to this event remains extremely limited. As of December 31, 2010, no credit relationship had been adversely classified as a result of the oil spill. However, new legislation or regulations that affect offshore exploration and production activities or substantially increase the cost of these activities could negatively impact customers in this industry and the general economy in our market area. We are exposed to intangible asset risk which could impact our financial results. In accordance with GAAP, we record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, and, as such, acquisitions typically result in recording goodwill. We perform a goodwill valuation at least annually to test for goodwill impairment. Impairment testing is a two step process that first compares the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and second measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Management’s testing in 2009 indicated an impairment of goodwill at our Lenders Title Company subsidiary, resulting in an impairment charge of $9.7 million recorded in our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance may significantly affect the fair value of our goodwill and may trigger additional impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position. Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Risks Related to the FDIC-assisted Transactions The success of the FDIC-assisted transactions will depend on a number of uncertain factors. The success of the FDIC-assisted transactions will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation: • our ability to integrate the branches acquired from Sterling in the FDIC-assisted transaction into IBERIABANK’s current operations; • our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired in the FDIC-assisted transactions; • our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by Sterling and the acquired branches; • our ability to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence; • our success in deploying the cash received in the FDIC-assisted transaction into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; • our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches; and 25 Table of Contents • our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches such as the FDIC-assisted transaction, there may be business and service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integrating the acquired branches will be an operation of substantial size and expense, and may be affected by general market and economic conditions or government actions affecting the financial industry generally. Integration efforts will also likely divert our management’s attention and resources. No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate the acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the FDIC-assisted transaction. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of the acquired branches will not adversely affect our existing profitability, that we will be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, that we will be able to compete effectively in the market areas currently served by the acquired branches, or that we will be able to mange any growth resulting from the FDIC-assisted transaction effectively. Our ability to grow the acquired branches following the FDIC-assisted transaction depends in part on our ability to retain certain key branch personnel we expect to hire in connection with the FDIC-assisted transactions. We believe that the ties these employees have in the local banking markets previously served by the acquired branches are vital to our ability to maintain our relationships with existing customers and to generate new business in these markets. Our failure to hire or retain these employees could adversely affect the success of the FDIC-assisted transaction and our future growth. Changes in national and local economics conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with the FDIC-assisted transactions all of which may not be supported by the loss sharing agreement with the FDIC. We acquired significant portfolios of loans in the FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these loan portfolios will be initially accounted for at fair value, there is no assurance that the loans we acquired will not become impaired, which may result in additional charge-offs to this portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and consequently, reduce our net income, and may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolio that we have acquired in the Acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we have acquired in connection with the FDIC-assisted transactions will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. The loss sharing agreements also impose standard requirements on us which must be satisfied in order to retain loss share protections. Deposit and loan run-off rates could exceed the rates we have projected in connection with our planning for the FDIC-assisted transactions and the integration of the acquired branches. Deposit run-off could be higher than our assumptions. As part of the FDIC-assisted transactions, it will be necessary to convert customer loan and deposit data from Orion’s and Century’s data processing systems to our data processing system. Delays or errors in the conversion process could adversely affect customer relationships, increase run-off of deposit and loan customers and result in unexpected charges and costs. Similarly, run-off could increase if we are not able to service in a cost-effective manner particular loan or deposit products with special features previously offered by Orion and Century. Any increase in run-off rates could adversely affect our ability to stimulate growth in the acquired branches, our liquidity, and our results of operations. Risks About Our Common Stock We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to shareholders in the future. 26 Table of Contents Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid to us from IBERIABANK. The ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited by regulatory and legal restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to the payment of dividends. For instance, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. The value of your investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock. Our common stock trades on Nasdaq Global Market. During 2010, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 209,500 shares. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how much more liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and • other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent our shareholders from selling common stock at or above the public offering price. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. In the past, shareholders often have brought securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including you, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to 27 Table of Contents our shareholders. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Our management has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from equity offerings. Our management has significant flexibility in applying the proceeds that we receive from equity offerings. Although we have indicated our intent to use the proceeds from recent offerings for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions, our working capital needs and investments in our subsidiaries, our management retains significant discretion with respect to the use of proceeds. The proceeds of our offerings may be used in a manner which does not generate a favorable return for us. We may use the proceeds to fund future acquisitions of other businesses. In addition, if we use the funds to acquire other businesses, there can be no assurance that any business we acquire would be successfully integrated into our operations or otherwise perform as expected. We may issue additional securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage. In many situations, our board of directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued stock, including shares authorized and unissued under our stock option plans. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Any such issuance would dilute the ownership of current holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 