ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are currently in default with our lenders. We are currently in default under our senior secured credit facility and second lien term loan. We are currently operating under a forbearance agreement with the senior secured credit facility which expires on April 30, 2009. We received notice of default under the second lien term loan in October 2008. Under the terms of the second lien term loan no enforcement action can be taken against us for at least 180 days beginning November 24, 2008. While we have previously entered into a series of forbearance agreements and voluntary standstill periods there can be no assurance once the current forbearance period ends under the senior secured credit facility and the 180 days expires under the second lien term loan that the lenders will not enforce their rights and remedies under the agreements and demand partial or full payment. We are currently in discussions with our current lenders to restructure our debt obligations and continue to seek alternative financing arrangements. There can be no assurance we will be successful in restructuring our debt or finding alternative financing arrangements. If we are unsuccessful restructuring our current debt obligations or securing alternative financing arrangements, our liquidity would be affected in a material manner and we may elect to file for bankruptcy protection. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our 2008 consolidated financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our recurring losses from operations, loss of production, significant deficiencies in working capital, increases in interest rates, termination of our natural gas and interest rate derivatives, and limited capital resources, our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008 and the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 15 We have a history of losses. We reported a net loss for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and maintain profitability. Natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in natural gas prices would significantly affect our business and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend upon prevailing natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas that we can economically produce. It is possible that prices will be low at the time periods in which the wells are most productive, thereby reducing overall returns. It is possible that prices will drop so low that production will become uneconomical. Ongoing production costs that will continue include equipment maintenance, compression and pumping costs. If production becomes uneconomical, we may decide to discontinue production until prices improve. Prices for natural gas fluctuate widely. For example, from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2008, natural gas prices quoted for the near month NYMEX contract have ranged from a low of $4.67 per mmbtu to a high of $13.61 per mmbtu. The prices for natural gas are subject to a variety of factors beyond our control, including: • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and fluctuating and seasonal demand; • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations, and taxation; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas including U.S. inventories of natural gas and oil reserves; • speculative trading and other market uncertainty; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • impact of energy conservation efforts; • the cost, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • overall domestic and global economic conditions. Failure to hedge our production may result in losses. On October 1, 2008, we received a notice of early termination for all our natural gas derivatives due to our default on the senior secured credit facility and second lien term loan. Currently, we do not have the ability to hedge our production due to our bank defaults and the lack of borrowing base capacity to meet margin calls. By failing to hedge our production, we are more adversely affected by declines in natural gas prices than our competitors who are currently engaged in hedging arrangements. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, the effect of the termination of our natural gas derivatives resulted in a loss of oil and gas revenue in the approximate amount of $1.2 million. If natural gas continues selling at current prices, our oil and gas revenue will be impacted negatively due to the inability to benefit from gains resulting from hedged production. Based on a sales price of $4.50 per mcf, we estimate lost revenues from our terminated natural gas contracts to be $10.8 million, $10.7 million, and $8.0 million for the years ending December 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. Failure to develop reserves could adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We will need to conduct successful exploration or development activities, joint venture relationships, and/or acquire properties containing proved reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to expand our natural gas reserves from cash flows, and external sources of capital may be limited or unavailable. Our drilling and joint venture activities may not result in significant reserves, and we may not have continuing success drilling productive wells. Exploratory drilling involves more risk than development drilling because exploratory drilling is designed to test formations in which proved reserves have not been discovered. Additionally, while our revenues may increase if prevailing gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for reserves also could increase, and we may not be able to finance additional exploration or development activities. Thus, our future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Our ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current and future production at acceptable costs depends on our generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, including our joint venture partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. 16 Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. Leases covering approximately 148,429 of our 651,389 net acres, or 23%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2009. An additional 72% of our net acres are scheduled to expire in the years 2010 and 2011. If we are unable or choose not to renew these leases or any leases scheduled for expiration beyond December 31, 2009 we will lose the right to develop the acreage that is covered by an expired lease which would impair our ability to expand our reserves and production. Most of our current development activity and producing properties are located in Michigan and Indiana, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in this region. Our current development activity is concentrated in Michigan and Indiana, and our currently producing properties are located primarily in a six-county area in Michigan. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of drilling and other delays or disruptions of production from these regions caused by weather conditions, governmental regulation, lack of field infrastructure, or other events which impact these areas. Our potential drilling locations comprise an estimation of part of our future drilling plans over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. As of December 31, 2008, we had over 3,700 net potential drilling locations to be included in our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to find joint venture or farmout partners to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, construction of infrastructure, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know whether we will be able to find suitable joint venture or farmout partners, whether our numerous potential drilling locations will ever be drilled, or whether natural gas will ever be produced from these or any other potential drilling locations, which could materially affect our business. We do not operate a substantial amount of our properties. We conduct much of our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities in joint ventures with others. In some cases, we act as operator and retain significant management control. In other cases, we have reserved only an overriding royalty interest and have surrendered all management rights. In still other cases, we have reserved the right to participate in management decisions, but do not have ultimate decision-making authority. As of December 31, 2008, we operated 31% of our gross wells and 63% of our net wells. We anticipate that in the future the percentage of gross wells that we operate may decline. As a result of these varying levels of management control, for those properties that we do not operate, we have no control over: • the number and location of wells to be drilled; • the timing of drilling and re-completing of wells; • the field company hired to drill and maintain the wells; • the timing and amounts of production; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; • development and operating costs; • capital calls on working interest owners; and • pipeline nominations. 17 These and other aspects of the operation of our properties and the success of our drilling and development activities will in many cases be dependent on the expertise and financial resources of our joint venture partners and third-party operators. We may be unable to make acquisitions of producing properties or prospects or successfully integrate them into our operations. Acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases have been an essential part of our long-term growth strategy. As of December 31, 2008, we had acquired approximately 1,164,460 (651,389 net) acres with 98,050 mmcfe in net proved reserves. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisitions in the future or to finance these acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we compete against other companies for acquisitions, many of whom have substantially greater managerial and financial resources than we have. The successful acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped natural gas leases requires an assessment of the properties’ potential natural gas reserves, future natural gas prices, development costs, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control. These assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. Such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geological characteristics or geographic location than existing properties. Our acquisitions may not be integrated successfully into our operations and may not achieve desired profitability objectives. We may lose key management personnel. Our current management team has substantial experience in the oil and natural gas business. We do not currently have employment agreements with any members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. If one or more members of our management team dies, becomes disabled or voluntarily terminates employment with us, there is no assurance that a suitable or comparable replacement will be found. Much of our proved reserves are not yet generating production revenues. Of our proved natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2008, approximately 56% are classified as proved developed producing, 17% are classified as proved developed non-producing, and 27% are classified as proved undeveloped. You should be aware that our ability to convert proved reserves into revenues is subject to certain limitations, including the following: • Reserves characterized as proved developed producing reserves may be producing predominantly water and generate little or no production revenue; • Production revenues from estimated proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until some time in the future, after we have installed supporting infrastructure or taken other necessary steps. It will be necessary to incur additional capital expenditures to install this required infrastructure, and we are currently unable to access significant capital for these expenditures; • Production revenues from estimated proved undeveloped reserves will not be realized until after such time, if ever, as we make significant capital expenditures with respect to the development of such reserves, including expenditures to fund the cost of drilling wells, dewatering the wells, and building the supporting infrastructure, and we are currently unable to access significant capital for these expenditures; and 18 • The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of the costs associated with developing these reserves in accordance with industry standards, no assurance can be given that our estimates of capital expenditures will prove accurate, that our financing sources will be sufficient to fully fund our planned development activities, or that development activities will be either successful or in accordance with our schedule. We cannot control the performance of our joint venture partners on whom we depend for development of a substantial number of properties in which we have an economic interest and which are included in our reserves. Further, any significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices or any significant increase in the cost of development could result in a significant reduction in the number of wells drilled. No assurance can be given that any wells will yield commercially viable quantities. Our oil and natural gas reserve data are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and existing economic and operating conditions that may differ from future economic and operating conditions. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner and is based upon assumptions that may change from year to year and vary considerably from actual results. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Information regarding discounted future net cash flows should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves that will be attributable to our properties. Examples of items that may cause our estimates to be inaccurate include, but are not limited to, the following: • The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower; • Because we have limited historical production and operating cost data to draw upon, the estimated production volume and operating costs used to calculate our reserve values may be inaccurate; • Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation; • The reserve report for our Michigan Antrim and New Albany shale properties assumes that production will be generated from each well for a period of 50 years. Because production is expected for such an extended period of time, the probability is enhanced that conditions at the time of production will vary materially from the current conditions used to calculate future net cash flows; • The 10% discount factor, which is required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69 to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks that will be associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general; • We may be unable to expend the capital resources required to achieve and maintain production within the time frame assumed in the calculation of revenues; and • Unanticipated regulatory problems not contemplated in the calculation of reserves may defer or impair production. 19 Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • adverse weather conditions, including flooding; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • title problems; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • formations with abnormal pressures; • injury or loss of life; • environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or , including groundwater contamination; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay our receipt of production revenues, thereby reducing our earnings. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although we will maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce our results of operations. Drilling and production delays may occur. In order to generate revenues from the sale of oil and natural gas production from new wells, we must complete significant development activity. Delay in receiving governmental permits, adverse weather, natural disasters such as fire and flooding, a shortage of labor or parts, and/or dewatering time frames may cause delays, as discussed below. These delays will result in delays in achieving and maintaining revenues from these new wells. Oil and natural gas producers often compete for experienced and competent drilling, completion and facilities installation vendors and production laborers. The unavailability of experienced and competent vendors and laborers may cause development and production delays. 20 From time to time, vendors of equipment needed for oil and natural gas drilling and production become backlogged, forcing delays in development until suitable equipment can be obtained. For each new well, before drilling can commence, we will have to obtain a drilling permit from the state in which the well is located. We will also have to obtain a permit for each salt water disposal well. It is possible that for reasons outside of our control, the issuance of the required permits will be delayed, thereby delaying the time at which production is achieved. We have previously experienced a delay in receiving permits from the State of Michigan, Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ"), for drilling horizontal wells, while the DEQ further reviews this drilling methodology. As a result of these delays, we have had to defer the drilling of certain wells in the Antrim shale until the review by the DEQ was completed and permits were issued. The DEQ has also forced us to discontinue operations in certain areas, and has required us to plug certain wells as a result of the outcome of water quality tests. We have no control over this type of regulatory delay or loss of producing wells. Adverse weather may postpone any drilling or development activity, forcing delays until more favorable weather conditions develop. This is more likely to occur during the winter and spring months, but can occur at other times of the year. Different natural gas reservoirs contain different amounts of water. The actual amount of time required for dewatering with respect to each well cannot be predicted with accuracy. The period of time when the volume of gas that is produced is limited by the dewatering process may be extended, thereby delaying revenue production. A well producing too much water may have to be plugged. We do not own any drilling equipment. Since we do not own any drilling equipment, we are affected by competition for drilling rigs and the availability of related equipment. In the past, on occasion the oil and natural gas industry has experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, and personnel which has delayed development drilling and other exploration activities and has caused significant price increases. We are unable to predict when or if such shortages may again occur or how they would affect our development and exploration program. Production levels cannot be predicted with certainty. Until a well is drilled and has been in production for a number of months, we will not know what volume of production we can expect to achieve from the well. Even after a well has achieved its full production capacity, we cannot be certain how long the well will continue to produce or the production decline that will occur over the life of the well. Estimates as to production volumes and production life are based on studies of similar wells (of which there are relatively few in the New Albany play) and, therefore, are speculative and not fully reliable. As a result, our revenue budgets for producing wells may prove to be inaccurate. Pipeline capacity may be inadequate. Because of the nature of natural gas development, there may be periods of time when pipeline capacity is inadequate to meet our gas transportation needs. It is often the case that as new development comes online, pipelines are close to or at capacity before new pipelines are built. During periods when pipeline capacity is inadequate, we may be forced to reduce production or incur additional expense as existing production requires additional compression to enter existing pipelines. Our reliance on third parties for gathering and distribution could curtail future exploration and production activities. The marketability of our production will depend on the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, third party facilities and services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or insufficient capacity of these facilities and services could force us to shut-in producing wells, delay the commencement of production, or discontinue development plans for some of our properties, which would adversely affect our financial condition and performance. During 2006, our production was hampered by curtailments in a third-party processing facility. We have since completed construction of our own processing facility and built an alternate pipeline route in response to this curtailment. 21 There is a potential for increased costs. The oil and natural gas industry has historically experienced periods of rapidly increasing drilling and production costs, frequently during times of increased drilling activities. If significant cost increases occur with respect to our development activity, we may have to reduce the number of wells we drill, which may adversely affect our financial performance. We may incur compression difficulties and expense. As production of natural gas increases, more compression is generally required to compress the production into the pipeline. As more compression is required, production costs increase, primarily because more fuel is required in the compression process. Furthermore, because compression is a mechanical process, a breakdown may occur that will cause us to be unable to deliver natural gas until repairs are made. Our electricity sources may be unreliable, resulting in interference with production. We have experienced a problem with periodic electricity outages, particularly in the area of our Antrim wells. Because our pumps are powered by electricity, such outages can reduce our production until each of the affected pumps is restarted. Equipment failures may reduce our production. We have experienced significant production down time due to failed equipment in our wells and production facilities. There is no assurance that our well enhancement program will remediate this problem, or that we will be able to retain the services of experts who can improve the maintenance and repair of our wells sufficiently to reduce down time. We may not have good and marketable title to our properties. It is customary in the oil and natural gas industry that upon acquiring an interest in a non-producing property, only a preliminary title investigation is done at that time and that a drilling title opinion is done prior to the initiation of drilling, neither of which can substitute for a complete title investigation. We have followed this custom to date and intend to continue to follow this custom in the future. Furthermore, title insurance is not available for mineral leases, and we will not obtain title insurance or other guaranty or warranty of good title. If the title to our prospects should prove to be defective, we could lose the costs that we have incurred in their acquisition or incur substantial costs for curative title work. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than most of our competitors. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies for property acquisitions and for the equipment and labor required to develop and operate these properties. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. These competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for oil and natural gas prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to complete transactions in this highly competitive environment. 22 Oil and natural gas operations involve various operating risks. The oil and natural gas business involves operating hazards such as well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Personal injuries, damage to property and equipment, reservoir damage, or loss of reserves may occur if such a catastrophe occurs, any one of which could cause us to experience substantial losses. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased or leased by us. To illustrate this risk, in late December 2006, a well in which we had a 13.33% cost interest (10% working interest) experienced a blow-out. Our associated liability was $762,000, only $266,666 of which was covered by insurance. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions all could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our natural gas and crude oil. Production from natural gas wells in many geographic areas of the United States has been curtailed or shut-in for considerable periods of time due to a lack of market demand, and such curtailments may continue for a considerable period of time in the future. There may be an excess supply of natural gas in areas where our operations will be conducted. If so, it is possible that there will be no market or a very limited market for our production. As a result of operating hazards, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions. We may lack insurance that could lower risks to our investors. We have procured insurance policies for general liability, property/pollution, well control and director and officer liability in amounts considered by management to be adequate, as well as a $20 million excess liability umbrella policy. Nonetheless, the policy limits may be inadequate in the case of a catastrophic loss, and there are some risks that are not insurable. We have limited business interruption insurance. An uninsured loss could adversely affect our financial performance. We may incur non-cash charges to our operations as a result of current and future financing transactions. Under current accounting rules and requirements, we may incur additional non-cash charges to future operations beyond the stated contractual interest payments required under our current and potential future credit facilities. While such charges are generally non-cash, they would impact our results of operations and earnings per share and could be material. We may be required under accounting rules to take write-downs. Under full cost accounting rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated prices in effect as of the end of each fiscal quarter and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded a ceiling write-down of $78.5 million. The write-down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date. Additional write-downs in future years may be required if the ceiling is exceeded again. We face risks rising from potential material weaknesses in our internal control environment. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal audit controls can prevent all possible error or fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute assurances that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations on all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that we have detected all control issues and instances of fraud, if any. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurances that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future condition;, over time, controls may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 23 At December 31, 2008, a material weakness was identified in our reserve reporting process as further described in management’s report on internal control over financial reporting included in Item 8 of this report. While management believes we will be able to successfully remediate this material weakness, our remedial actions may prove to be ineffective or inadequate and expose us to further risk of misstatements in our financial statements. In such circumstances, investors and other users of our financial statements may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial information and we could fail to comply with certain representations, warranties and covenants in our debt and other financing-related agreements or be obligated to incur additional costs to improve our internal controls. Because we handle natural gas and oil, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our wells and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; • Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste, including produced waters, from our facilities; and • Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example, an accidental release from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies may be enacted or adopted and could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover remediation costs under our insurance policies. 24 We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect our business. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local government laws and regulations, which may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters that are typically regulated include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • reports concerning operations; • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • environmental protection; and • taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of natural gas and crude oil. We also are subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which we cannot predict. The development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and crude oil, by-products and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil or pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties and may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties or require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. As described above, we have recently been required to plug wells as a result of water quality issues. Legal and tax requirements frequently are changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR STOCK We may experience volatility in our stock price. For the 36-month period ended December 31, 2008, our stock traded as high as $4.59 per share and as low as $0.07 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors some of which are within our control such as non compliance with debt covenants and other lender requirements and lack of access to credit markets. Other factors are beyond our control, including: • changes in natural gas prices; • changes in the natural gas industry and the overall economic environment; • quarterly variations in operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of other similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new discoveries or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; 25 • additions or departures of key personnel; • any deviations in net sales or losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and • future sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market from time to time experiences extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that discourage a change of control. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our Board of Directors’ approval. Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. If our Board of Directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change of control might be beneficial to our shareholders. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may, in the future, issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present shareholders. Our authorized capital stock consists of 250,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as may be determined by our Board of Directors. On December 31, 2008, we had 103,282,788 shares of common stock outstanding and no shares of preferred stock outstanding. At December 31, 2008, we had warrants and options outstanding that were exercisable for 4,533,944 shares of our common stock. We have an additional 2,257,500 shares available for award as either option or stock grants under our existing incentive plans. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock, or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, debt refinancing, or for other business purposes. In the future, we may engage in public offerings of our stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. The issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, equity financing, debt restructuring or otherwise, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 103.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding, including approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock held or controlled by our executive officers and directors. Of those 5.0 million shares, 0.5 million are eligible for resale on two S-8 registration statements and the balance are eligible for sale under Rule 144 ("Rule 144") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). We have two currently effective S-8 registration statements that, combined, include 469,996 shares owned or controlled by our executive officers and directors that are registered for resale. We could be delisted, resulting in a less robust trading market for our shares. Because of our recent financial difficulties and low trading price, we are at risk of being delisted by the NYSE Alternext US LLC (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange). If this occurs, our shares may be traded over the counter, which is likely to result in lower visibility for our stock and lower trading volumes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 