ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in natural gas prices would significantly affect our business and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend upon prevailing natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas that we can economically produce. It is possible that prices will be low at the time periods in which the wells are most productive, thereby reducing overall returns. It is possible that prices will drop so low that production will become uneconomical. Ongoing production costs that will continue include equipment maintenance, compression and pumping costs. If production becomes uneconomical, we may decide to discontinue production until prices improve. Prices for natural gas fluctuate widely. For example, from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007, natural gas prices quoted for the near month NYMEX contract have ranged from a low of $4.40 per mmbtu to a high of $11.00 per mmbtu. The prices for natural gas are subject to a variety of factors beyond our control, including: ● the level of consumer product demand; ● weather conditions; ● domestic and foreign governmental regulations; ● the price and availability of alternative fuels; ● political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions; ● the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; ● speculative trading and other market uncertainty; and ● worldwide economic conditions. 15 The failure to develop reserves could adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We will need to conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to expand our natural gas reserves from cash flows, and external sources of capital may be limited or unavailable. Our drilling activities may not result in significant reserves, and we may not have continuing success drilling productive wells. Exploratory drilling involves more risk than development drilling because exploratory drilling is designed to test formations in which proved reserves have not been discovered. Additionally, while our revenues may increase if prevailing gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for reserves also could increase, and we may not be able to finance additional exploration or development activities. We may have difficulty financing our planned growth. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and working capital needs, particularly as a result of our property acquisition and development drilling activities. We will require substantial additional financing to fund our planned growth. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may be forced to curtail our acquisition, development drilling and other activities or to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. We are in the process of evaluating strategic alternatives as of the date of this report. Most of our current development activity and producing properties are located in Michigan and Indiana, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in this region. Our current development activity is concentrated in Michigan and Indiana, and our currently producing properties are located primarily in a six-county area in Michigan. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of drilling and other delays or disruptions of production from these regions caused by weather conditions, governmental regulation, lack of field infrastructure, or other events which impact these areas. In addition, a majority of our leaseholds held for development are located in the more untested New Albany shale play/trend. Our potential drilling locations comprise an estimation of part of our future drilling plans over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. As of December 31, 2007, we had over 3,700 net potential drilling locations to be included in our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, construction of infrastructure, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if our numerous potential drilling locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations, which could materially affect our business. We may continue to incur losses. We reported a net loss for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve and maintain profitability. 16 We do not operate a substantial amount of our properties. We conduct much of our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities in joint ventures with others. In some cases, we act as operator and retain significant management control. In other cases, we have reserved only an overriding royalty interest and have surrendered all management rights. In still other cases, we have reserved the right to participate in management decisions, but do not have ultimate decision-making authority. As of December 31, 2007, we operated 35% of our gross wells and 67% of our net wells. As a result of these varying levels of management control, for those properties that we do not operate, we have no control over: ● the number of wells to be drilled; ● the location of wells to be drilled; ● the timing of drilling and re-completing of wells; ● the field company hired to drill and maintain the wells; ● the timing and amounts of production; ● the approval of other participants in drilling wells; ● development and operating costs; ● capital calls on working interest owners; and ● pipeline nominations. These and other aspects of the operation of our properties and the success of our drilling and development activities will in many cases be dependent on the expertise and financial resources of our joint venture partners and third-party operators. We may be unable to make acquisitions of producing properties or prospects or successfully integrate them into our operations. Acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases have been an essential part of our long-term growth strategy. As of December 31, 2007, we had acquired approximately 1,283,183 (712,215 net) acres with 166,595 mmcfe in net proved reserves. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisitions in the future or to finance these acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we compete against other companies for acquisitions, many of whom have substantially greater managerial and financial resources than we have. The successful acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped natural gas leases requires an assessment of the properties’ potential natural gas reserves, future natural gas prices, development costs, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control. These assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. Such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geological characteristics or geographic location than existing properties. Our acquisitions may not be integrated successfully into our operations and may not achieve desired profitability objectives. We may lose key management personnel. Our current management team has substantial experience in the oil and natural gas business. We do not currently have employment agreements with any members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. If one or more members of our management team dies, becomes disabled or voluntarily terminates employment with us, there is no assurance that a suitable or comparable replacement will be found. Much of our proved reserves are not yet generating production revenues. Of our proved natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2007, approximately 61% are classified as proved developed producing, 9% are classified as proved developed non-producing, and 30% are classified as proved undeveloped. 17 You should be aware that our ability to convert proved reserves into revenues is subject to certain limitations, including the following: ● Reserves characterized as proved developed producing reserves may be producing predominantly water and generate little or no production revenue; ● Production revenues from estimated proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until some time in the future, after we have installed supporting infrastructure or taken other necessary steps. It will be necessary to incur additional capital expenditures to install this required infrastructure; ● Production revenues from estimated proved undeveloped reserves will not be realized until after such time, if ever, as we make significant capital expenditures with respect to the development of such reserves, including expenditures to fund the cost of drilling wells, dewatering the wells, and building the supporting infrastructure; and ● The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of the costs associated with developing these reserves in accordance with industry standards, no assurance can be given that our estimates of capital expenditures will prove accurate, that our financing sources will be sufficient to fully fund our planned development activities, or that development activities will be either successful or in accordance with our schedule. We cannot control the performance of our joint venture partners on whom we depend for development of a substantial number of properties in which we have an economic interest and which are included in our reserves. Further, any significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices or any significant increase in the cost of development could result in a significant reduction in the number of wells drilled. No assurance can be given that any wells will yield commercially viable quantities. Our oil and natural gas reserve data are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and existing economic and operating conditions that may differ from future economic and operating conditions. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner and is based upon assumptions that may change from year to year and vary considerably from actual results. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Information regarding discounted future net cash flows should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves that will be attributable to our properties. Examples of items that may cause our estimates to be inaccurate include, but are not limited to, the following: ● The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower; ● Because we have limited operating cost data to draw upon, the estimated operating costs used to calculate our reserve values may be inaccurate; ● Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation; 18 ● The reserve report for our Michigan Antrim and New Albany shale properties assumes that production will be generated from each well for a period of 50 years. Because production is expected for such an extended period of time, the probability is enhanced that conditions at the time of production will vary materially from the current conditions used to calculate future net cash flows; and ● The 10% discount factor, which is required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69 to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks that will be associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Our drilling activities may be unsuccessful. We cannot predict prior to drilling and testing a well whether the well will be productive or whether we will recover all or any portion of our investment in the well. Our drilling for natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry holes but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient quantities to cover drilling and completion costs and are not economically viable. Our efforts to identify commercially productive reservoirs, such as studying seismic data, the geology of the area and production history of adjoining fields, do not conclusively establish that natural gas is present in commercial quantities. If our drilling efforts are unsuccessful, our profitability will be adversely affected. For the 36-month period ending December 31, 2007, approximately 6% of the gross wells we drilled were unsuccessful. Production levels cannot be predicted with certainty. Until a well is drilled and has been in production for a number of months, we will not know what volume of production we can expect to achieve from the well. Even after a well has achieved its full production capacity, we cannot be certain how long the well will continue to produce or the production decline that will occur over the life of the well. Estimates as to production volumes and production life are based on studies of similar wells (of which there are relatively few in the New Albany play) and, therefore, are speculative and not fully reliable. As a result, our revenue budgets for producing wells may prove to be inaccurate. Drilling and production delays may occur. In order to generate revenues from the sale of oil and natural gas production from new wells, we must complete significant development activity. Delay in receiving governmental permits, adverse weather, a shortage of labor or parts, and/or dewatering time frames may cause delays, as discussed below. These delays will result in delays in achieving revenues from these new wells. Oil and natural gas producers often compete for experienced and competent drilling, completion and facilities installation vendors and production laborers. The unavailability of experienced and competent vendors and laborers may cause development and production delays. From time to time, vendors of equipment needed for oil and natural gas drilling and production become backlogged, forcing delays in development until suitable equipment can be obtained. For each new well, before drilling can commence, we will have to obtain a drilling permit from the state in which the well is located. We will also have to obtain a permit for each salt water disposal well. It is possible that for reasons outside of our control, the issuance of the required permits will be delayed, thereby delaying the time at which production is achieved. We have previously experienced a delay in receiving permits from the State of Michigan, Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ"), for drilling horizontal wells, while the DEQ further reviews this drilling methodology. As a result of these delays, we have had to defer the drilling of certain wells in the Antrim shale until the review by the DEQ was completed and permits were issued. The DEQ has also forced producers to discontinue operations in certain areas of the Michigan Antrim so that the DEQ can inspect the salt water disposal wells operated in those areas. We have no control over this type of regulatory delay. 19 The DEQ has also recently instituted a water sampling and monitoring requirement for wells north of a line that includes most of our Antrim projects. The drilling permits for these wells require produced water monitoring and reporting of gas and water volume and water quality. If the water produced by a well has levels of chloride or total dissolved solids concentration below specified levels, we may be required to shut-in the well. If such wells cannot be remediated so that fresh water is no longer produced, we may be required to plug such wells. In September 2007, the DEQ collected and analyzed water samples from certain wells in the Arrowhead, Blue Chip, and Gaylord Fishing Club projects. On January 31, 2008, we met with the DEQ to review the analyses. Since the water composition in most of the wells fell within the range deemed by the DEQ to be fresh water, the DEQ requested that we plug six wells, plug or remediate an additional 15 wells, and collect water samples from the remaining wells that had not been previously sampled. We are currently preparing to collect a new round of water samples from every producing well, and the potential for remediation is under review. Adverse weather may postpone any drilling or development activity, forcing delays until more favorable weather conditions develop. This is more likely to occur during the winter and spring months, but can occur at other times of the year. Different natural gas reservoirs contain different amounts of water. The actual amount of time required for dewatering with respect to each well cannot be predicted with accuracy. The period of time when the volume of gas that is produced is limited by the dewatering process may be extended, thereby delaying revenue production. As noted above, a well producing too much water may have to be plugged. We do not own any drilling equipment. Since we do not own any drilling equipment, we are affected by competition for drilling rigs and the availability of related equipment. In the past, the oil and natural gas industry has experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, and personnel which has delayed development drilling and other exploration activities and has caused significant price increases. We are unable to predict when or if such shortages may again occur or how they would affect our development and exploration program. Pipeline capacity may be inadequate. Because of the nature of natural gas development, there may be periods of time when pipeline capacity is inadequate to meet our gas transportation needs. It is often the case that as new development comes online, pipelines are close to or at capacity before new pipelines are built. During periods when pipeline capacity is inadequate, we may be forced to reduce production or incur additional expense as existing production requires additional compression to enter existing pipelines. Our reliance on third parties for gathering and distribution could curtail future exploration and production activities. The marketability of our production will depend on the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, third party facilities and services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or insufficient capacity of these facilities and services could force us to shut-in producing wells, delay the commencement of production, or discontinue development plans for some of our properties, which would adversely affect our financial condition and performance. During 2006, our production was hampered by curtailments in a third-party processing facility. We have since completed construction of our own processing facility and built an alternate pipeline route in response to this curtailment. There is a potential for increased costs. The oil and natural gas industry has historically experienced periods of rapidly increasing drilling and production costs, frequently during times of increased drilling activities. If significant cost increases occur with respect to our development activity, we may have to reduce the number of wells we drill, which may adversely affect our financial performance. 20 We may incur compression difficulties and expense. As production of natural gas increases, more compression is generally required to compress the production into the pipeline. As more compression is required, production costs increase, primarily because more fuel is required in the compression process. Furthermore, because compression is a mechanical process, a breakdown may occur that will cause us to be unable to deliver natural gas until repairs are made. We may not have good and marketable title to our properties. It is customary in the oil and natural gas industry that upon acquiring an interest in a non-producing property, only a preliminary title investigation is done at that time and that a drilling title opinion is done prior to the initiation of drilling, neither of which can substitute for a complete title investigation. We have followed this custom to date and intend to continue to follow this custom in the future. Furthermore, title insurance is not available for mineral leases, and we will not obtain title insurance or other guaranty or warranty of good title. If the title to our prospects should prove to be defective, we could lose the costs that we have incurred in their acquisition or incur substantial costs for curative title work. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than most of our competitors. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies for property acquisitions and for the equipment and labor required to develop and operate these properties. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. These competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for oil and natural gas prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to complete transactions in this highly competitive environment. Oil and natural gas operations involve various operating risks. The oil and natural gas business involves operating hazards such as well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Personal injuries, damage to property and equipment, reservoir damage, or loss of reserves may occur if such a catastrophe occurs, any one of which could cause us to experience substantial losses. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased or leased by us. To illustrate this risk, in late December 2006, a well in which we had a 13.33% cost interest experienced a blow-out. Our associated liability was $762,000, only $266,666 of which was covered by insurance. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions all could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our natural gas and crude oil. Production from natural gas wells in many geographic areas of the United States has been curtailed or shut-in for considerable periods of time due to a lack of market demand, and such curtailments may continue for a considerable period of time in the future. There may be an excess supply of natural gas in areas where our operations will be conducted. If so, it is possible that there will be no market or a very limited market for our production. As a result of operating hazards, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions. 21 We may lack insurance that could lower risks to our investors. We have procured insurance policies for general liability, property/pollution, well control and director and officer liability in amounts considered by management to be adequate, as well as a $20 million excess liability umbrella policy. Nonetheless, the policy limits may be inadequate in the case of a catastrophic loss, and there are some risks that are not insurable. We have limited business interruption insurance. An uninsured loss could adversely affect our financial performance. Our credit facilities have operating restrictions and financial covenants that limit our flexibility and may limit our borrowing capacity; needed increases in borrowing capacity may not be available. As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding debt included a senior credit facility with a current approved borrowing base of $70 million, $56 million of which was drawn, and a five-year second lien term loan facility with a current approved borrowing base of $50 million, of which $50 million is currently drawn. All of our credit facilities, other than our office mortgage loan, have operational restrictions and credit ratio compliance requirements that limit our flexibility. If the ratio requirements are not satisfied, curative action may be required, such as repaying a part of the outstanding principal, and we will be unable to draw more funds to use in development. We may not have sufficient funds available to make any required repayment, which could cause us to be in default of our credit facilities. The value of the assets pledged as collateral under our senior credit facility and second lien term loan facility will depend on the then current commodity prices for natural gas. If prices drop significantly, we may have difficulty satisfying the ratio covenants of these credit facilities. As noted above, oil and natural gas prices are volatile. In order to execute our current development plan we will need to increase our credit availability as we add proved reserves. If we are unable to convert our assets to proved reserves at our planned pace, or if the value of our proved reserves drops as described above, we may be unable to increase our available credit as needed. Furthermore, any increases to our available credit will be entirely within the discretion of our lenders and may not be available to us even if we are successful in increasing the value of our proved reserves. If we are unable to make use of our credit facilities, it may be difficult to find replacement sources of financing to use for working capital, capital expenditures, drilling, technology purchases or other purposes. Even if replacement financing is available, it may be on less advantageous terms than the current credit facilities. If we are unable to obtain increases in our borrowing capacity as needed, we may be unable to execute our development plans. Our debt level and the covenants in our credit facility agreements could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in our credit facility agreements, could have important consequences for our operations, including: ● increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detracting from our ability to withstand successfully a downturn in our business or the economy generally; ● requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; ● limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; ● limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ● placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors; and ● making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because borrowings under our credit facility may be at rates prevailing at the time of each borrowing. 22 We may incur non-cash charges to our operations as a result of current and future financing transactions. Under current accounting rules and requirements, we may incur additional non-cash charges to future operations beyond the stated contractual interest payments required under our current and potential future credit facilities. While such charges are generally non-cash, they would impact our results of operations and earnings per share and could be material. We may be required under accounting rules to take write-downs. Under full cost accounting rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated prices in effect as of the end of each fiscal quarter and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings but would not impact cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date. We may incur limitations on the effectiveness of controls. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal controls can prevent all possible error or fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations on all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that we have detected all control issues and instances of fraud, if any. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We have hedged and may continue to hedge a portion of our production, which may result in our making cash payments or prevent us from receiving the full benefit of increases in prices for oil and natural gas. In order to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas, and in some cases as required by our lenders, we periodically enter into hedging arrangements. Our hedging arrangements apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil and natural gas prices. Such hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances where production is less than expected, our customers fail to purchase contracted quantities of oil or natural gas or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices. In addition, our hedging arrangements may limit the benefit to us of increases in the price of oil and natural gas. 23 We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect our business. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local government laws and regulations, which may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters that are typically regulated include: ● discharge permits for drilling operations; ● drilling bonds; ● reports concerning operations; ● spacing of wells; ● unitization and pooling of properties; ● environmental protection; and ● taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of natural gas and crude oil. We also are subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which we cannot predict. The development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and crude oil, by-products and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil or pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties and may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties or require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. Legal and tax requirements frequently are changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR STOCK We may experience volatility in our stock price. For the 36-month period ending December 31, 2007, our stock traded as high as $7.44 per share and as low as $1.09 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: ● changes in natural gas prices; ● changes in the natural gas industry and the overall economic environment; ● quarterly variations in operating results; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● changes in market valuations of other similar companies; ● announcements by us or our competitors of new discoveries or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● any deviations in net sales or losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and ● future sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market from time to time experiences extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. 24 A voting block is created by certain voting agreements and irrevocable proxies, and we do not have cumulative voting. In connection with the closing of the merger of Cadence Resources Corporation and Aurora Energy, Ltd. certain of our shareholders, including certain former Aurora shareholders who became shareholders of us in connection with the merger, executed and delivered voting agreements pursuant to which they agreed, until October 31, 2008, to vote their shares of our common stock in favor of (i) five directors designated by William W. Deneau, who were initially William W. Deneau, Earl V. Young, Gary J. Myles, Richard Deneau, and Ronald E. Huff; and (ii) two directors designated by William W. Deneau from among our board of directors immediately before the closing of the merger, who were initially Howard Crosby and Kevin Stulp. Howard Crosby and Ronald E. Huff have since resigned from our board of directors. In addition, these shareholders agreed to vote all of their shares of common stock to ensure that the size of our board of directors will be set and remain at seven directors. After recent amendments to the voting agreements, an aggregate of 11,702,580 shares, approximately 11.5% of our outstanding shares, are subject to these voting agreements. Also in connection with the closing of the merger, certain of our shareholders executed and delivered irrevocable proxies that currently name William W. Deneau and John E. McDevitt as proxies to vote their shares through October 31, 2008, in the manner determined by such proxies. An aggregate of approximately 10.7 million shares of our common stock held by such shareholders was subject to these proxies at December 31, 2007. These provisions will reduce our other shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of shareholder votes through October 31, 2008, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative voting in the election of our directors. Cumulative voting, in some cases, could allow a minority group to elect at least one director to our board. Because there is no provision for cumulative voting, a minority group will not be able to elect any directors. Accordingly, the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock, present in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that discourage a change of control. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change of control might be beneficial to our shareholders. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may, in the future, issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present shareholders. Our authorized capital stock consists of 250,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as may be determined by our board of directors. On December 31, 2007, we had 101,769,456 shares of common stock outstanding and no shares of preferred stock outstanding. At December 31, 2007, we had warrants and options outstanding that were exercisable for 4,892,609 shares of our common stock. We have an additional 5,257,500 shares available for award as either option or stock grants under our existing incentive plans. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock, or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, debt refinancing, or for other business purposes. In the future, we may engage in public offerings of our stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 25 The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. We have filed two shelf registration statements that together would register almost 20.6 million shares of common stock for resale. These registration statements are not currently effective. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock pursuant to the resale registration statements, the perception that any such sale might occur, or the issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, equity financings or otherwise, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 101.8 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding, including approximately 10.5 million shares of our common stock held or controlled by our executive officers and directors. Of those 10.5 million shares, 8.6 million are subject to lock-up agreements through October 31, 2008, 0.5 million are eligible for resale on two S-8 registration statements, and the balance are eligible for sale under Rule 144 ("Rule 144") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). We have two currently effective S-8 registration statements that, combined, include 469,996 shares owned or controlled by our executive officers and directors that are registered for resale. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On December 18, 2007, we received an SEC comment letter pertaining to our Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2006, and our Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007. The SEC comments addressed: (i) a presentation issue in the statement of operations; (ii) disclosures relating to asset retirement obligations, income (loss) per share, shareholders’ equity, methodologies for capitalizing interest, changes in standardized measure of discounted future cash flow, and SFAS 69; (iii) clarification on fourth quarter adjustments; and (iv) engineering comments with respect to our oil and gas reserves. On January 17, 2008, we filed our response. On February 13, 2008, we received a letter from the SEC with follow-up engineering comments and, on February 28, 2008, we filed our response. We have not yet received a reply from the SEC addressing our responses. We have incorporated into this Form 10-K several of the changes we suggested in our response to the SEC. We do not currently have reason to believe that there are any material open items but, since the SEC has not yet replied to our accounting response, we cannot be sure if there are any material open items. ITEM 