Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks, many beyond the Company’s control, which could cause the Company’s results to differ significantly from management’s expectations. Some of these risk factors are described below. Any factor described in this report could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. The most important risk factors affecting the success of the Company are believed to be the management of loan credit risk and interest rate risk. Loan Credit Risk Loan credit risk is discussed in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Loan Losses” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 13 hereto. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is discussed in the “Asset/ Liability Management and Market Risk” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 13 hereto. Other key risks include, but are not limited to, operating risk, legal risk and acquisition risk. Operating Risk Operating risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems or from external events that are wholly or partially beyond the Company’s control. Operational risk includes items such as fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, business interruptions and errors related to processing and systems. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Legal Risk Legal risk is the risk of legal proceedings against the Company and regulatory reviews that arise in the course of business. The Company operates in a heavily regulated industry. The regulatory framework is discussed further in the Supervision and Regulation section in Item 1 – “Business” of this Form 10-K. Acquisition Risk The Company regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial institutions and other financial services providers. The Company’s ability to complete an acquisition is subject to regulatory approval, which may or may not be granted. The Company might be required to divest branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause the Company not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. Specifically, the integration process could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, the disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative impact of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in connection with acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. There are also other factors not described in this report that could cause results to differ from management’s expectations. These factors include: • General business, economic and political conditions in the United States and, in particular, the Company’s market areas. • Competition from other banks, as well as securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers and specialty finance and insurance companies. • The loss of key members of senior management and the ability to attract and retain additional qualified banking personnel. • The ability of third parties to provide core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems and deposit and other processing services. • The vulnerability of the Company’s network and computer systems to unforeseen problems, including a security breach. • Future legislation affecting the Company’s operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 