Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks, many beyond our control, which could cause our results to differ significantly from management’s expectations. Some of these risk factors are described below. Any factor described in this report could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to not be material also may materially and adversely affect us. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to other information disclosed in our SEC filings, including the financial statements and notes thereto. Risks Associated with IBERIABANK Corporation A return to recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Although the general economic environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that improvement will continue. A return of recessionary conditions and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and high unemployment levels may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • increases in loan delinquencies; • increases in nonperforming and classified assets; • decreases in demand for our products and services; and • decreases in the value of collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could result in lower recovery amounts on these loans, as well as reduce customers’ borrowing power and our ability to originate future loans. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, earnings and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Disruptions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since mid-2007, global financial markets have suffered substantial disruptions, illiquidity and volatility. These circumstances resulted in significant government assistance to a number of major financial institutions. These events significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions and increased the uncertainty we face in managing our business. If future disruptions in the financial markets or the global or our regional economic environment arise, they could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including our liquidity position, and may affect our ability to access capital. The Government’s responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. The Federal Reserve Board, or the FRB, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of long-term treasury and mortgage-backed securities. In January 2014, the FRB announced that it would slow monthly purchases of these securities by an additional $10 billion, to $65 billion per month. If the FRB slows such purchases at too fast a rate and increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. The Dodd-Frank Act and related rules and regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a variety of far-reaching changes and reforms for the financial services industry and directed federal regulatory agencies to study the effects of, and to issue implementing regulations for, these reforms. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could have a direct effect on our performance and, in some cases, impact our ability to conduct business. Examples of these provisions include, but are not limited to: • Creates of the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel that may recommend to the FRB increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity; • Applies of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, such as IBERIABANK Corporation; • Changes to the assessment base used by the FDIC to assess insurance premiums from insured depository institutions and increases to the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to not less than 1.35%, with provisions to require institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, like us, to bear a greater portion of the costs associated with the increasing the DIF’s reserve ratio; • Repeals of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; • Establishes of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, with broad authority to implement and enforce consumer protection regulations, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive, and abusive practices.” For bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, like IBERIABANK Corporation, the CFPB has the power to examine and enforce compliance with consumer protection laws. • Implements of risk retention rules for loans (excluding qualified residential mortgages) that are sold by a bank; and • Amends of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to, among other things, authorize the FRB to issue rules limiting debit-card interchange fees (referred to as the “Durbin Amendment”). Many of these provisions have already been the subject of proposed and final rulemakings. Many other provisions, however, remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions, as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes, may impact the profitability of our business activities, may require that we change certain of our business practices, may materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, may require us to raise additional capital and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents In July, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (the “Court”) issued an order granting summary judgment to plaintiffs in a case challenging certain provisions of the FRB’s regulation concerning the Durbin Amendment. The Court held that two aspects of the FRB’s regulation – the debit interchange fee and network exclusivity provisions – are contrary to the Durbin Amendment’s provisions and therefore the FRB regulation’s maximum permissible debit card interchange fees are too high. The Court vacated the FRB regulation, but stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace the invalidated portions. The FRB has decided to appeal this decision. If this decision is ultimately upheld and/or the FRB re-issues amended rules for purposes of implementing the Durbin Amendment in a manner consistent with this decision, the amount of debt card interchange fees that would be permitted to charge likely would be reduced, thereby negatively affecting our financial performance. See Part II – Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”) for further information regarding our debit card interchange revenue. We are required to submit a stress test under the Dodd Frank Act the results of which could significantly impact our ability to approve declare and pay dividends to shareholders, acquire other financial institutions and/or execute our growth strategy. The Dodd Frank Act requires us to submit a stress test to the FRB that projects the Company’s performance under various economic scenarios provided by the FRB. We are required to make certain assumptions in modeling future performance and must support these assumptions through statistical analysis and observed market behavior where applicable. The outcome of the FRB’s analysis of the Company’s projected performance (to include capital, earnings, and balance sheet changes) could hinder our ability to pay cash dividends to shareholders as has been the Company’s practice. The results of the stress test could also impact the FRB’s future decision making regarding future acquisitions by the Company. Our ability to achieve expense reduction and earnings enhancement initiatives may be adversely affected by external factors not within our control. We are continuing to implement a number of expense reduction and revenue enhancing initiatives that, fully implemented, are currently expected to result in estimated annual incremental run-rate benefits of approximately $24.5 million on a pre-tax basis. While many of the elements necessary to achieve these initiatives are within our control, others such as interest rates and prevailing economic conditions, which influence expenses and revenues, depend on external factors not within our control, and there can be no assurance that external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to fully implement and accomplish these initiatives. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, and we may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability depends to a large extent on IBERIABANK’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income may be reduced if more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a period when interest rates are declining, or more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a period when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, as is likely in the current low interest rate policy environment, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thereby reducing our net interest income. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, but interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. As of December 31, 2013, our interest rate risk model indicated we are fairly balanced over a 12-month time frame. A 100 basis instantaneous and parallel upward shift in interest rates at December 31, 2013, was estimated to increase net interest income over 12 months by approximately 3.3%. 17 Table of Contents Similarly, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates was expected to decrease net interest income by 2.6%. At December 31, 2013, approximately 50% of our total loan portfolio had fixed interest rates. Eliminating fixed rate loans that mature within a one-year time frame reduces this percentage to 23%. Approximately 74% of our time deposit base will re-price within 12 months from December 31, 2013. The required accounting treatment of troubled loans we acquired through acquisitions could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to record troubled loans acquired through acquisitions at fair value, which may underestimate the actual performance of such loans. As a result, if these loans outperform our original fair value estimates, the difference between our original estimate and the actual performance of the loan (the “discount”) is accreted into net interest income. Thus, our net interest margins may initially appear higher. We expect the yields on our loans to decline as our acquired loan portfolio pays down or matures, and we expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff on our acquired loan portfolio is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans. This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest rate margins and lower interest income in future periods. We obtain a significant portion of our noninterest revenue through service charges on core deposit accounts. Regulations impacting service charges, changes in customer behavior, and increased competition could reduce our fee income. A significant portion of our noninterest revenue is derived from service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft-related fees. Management anticipates that changes in banking regulations, and in particular the FRB’s rules pertaining to certain overdraft payments on consumer accounts and the FDIC’s Overdraft Payment Programs and Consumer Protection Final Overdraft Payment Supervisory Guidance, will have an adverse impact on our service charge income. Additionally, changes in customer behavior, as well as increased competition from other financial institutions, may result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. A reduction in deposit account fee income could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. We earn a significant portion of our noninterest revenue through sales of residential mortgages in the secondary market. We are exposed to counterparty credit, market, repurchase and other risks associated with these activities. Our noninterest revenue attributable to mortgage banking activities has grown significantly in recent years. The Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk in the normal course of these sales activities as well as market risk when engaging in this activity that is greatly impacted by the amount of liquidity in the secondary markets and changes in interest rates. Additionally, the Company retains repurchase risk associated with sales of these loans that is related to the Company’s residential mortgage loan underwriting and closing practices. Increases in claims under these repurchase or make-whole demands could have a material impact on our ability to continue participating in these types of activities as well as materially impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums or special assessments if the number of bank failures increases, or the cost of resolving failed banks increases, which could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The FRB’s repeal of prohibitions against payment of interest on demand deposits may increase competition for such deposits and ultimately increase interest expense. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. Our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our customers and securities held in our investment portfolio. We fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. As of December 31, 2013 we maintained approximately 24% of our deposits as non-interest-bearing. In July 2011, the FRB issued final rules to repeal Regulation Q, which had prohibited the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System. Banks and thrifts are now permitted to offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which were previously forbidden. The repeal of Regulation Q may cause increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits. If we decide to pay interest on demand accounts, we would expect our interest expense to increase. Although Regulation Q has been effective for over two years, the impact may not have been realized yet because of the current low interest rate policy environment. As with other regulated financial institutions, we may become subject to more stringent regulatory capital requirements that limit our operations and potential growth, and which may result in regulatory action. IBERIABANK Corporation and IBERIABANK are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. We must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by our banking regulators, which can change depending on general economic conditions and IBERIABANK Corporation’s particular condition, risk profile, growth plans, and regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If at any time we fail to meet minimum established capital guidelines and/or other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In July 2013, U.S. banking regulatory agencies, including the FRB, approved a final rule to implement the revised capital adequacy standards of the Basel Committee, or “Basel III”, and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We will become subject to the new rule on January 1, 2015, and certain provisions of the new rule will be phased in from that date to January 1, 2019. The final rule: • Permits banking organizations that had less than $15 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009, to include as Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock that were issued and included as Tier 1 capital prior to May 19, 2010, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital elements, excluding any non-qualifying capital instruments and after all regulatory capital deductions and adjustments have been applied to Tier 1 capital, • Permits banking organizations that achieve $15 billion or more in total assets after December 31, 2009 to phase-out of Tier 1 capital and include these securities as Tier 2 capital; • Establishes new qualifying criteria for regulatory capital, including new limitations on the inclusion of deferred tax assets and mortgage servicing rights; • Establishes new qualifying criteria for regulatory capital, including new limitations on the inclusion of deferred tax assets and mortgage servicing rights; • Requires a minimum of ratio of common equity Tier 1, or CET1, capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5%; • Increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio requirements from 4% to 6%; • Retains the minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio requirement of 8%; • Establishes a minimum leverage ratio requirement of 4%; • Retains the existing regulatory capital framework for 1-4 family residential mortgage exposures; 19 Table of Contents • Implements a new capital conservation buffer requirement for a banking organization to maintain a CET1 capital ratio more than 2.5% above the minimum CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividend payments, and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning on January 1, 2016 at 0.625%, and will be fully phased in at 2.50% by January 1, 2019. A banking organization with a buffer of less than the required amount would be subject to increasingly stringent limitations on such distributions and payments as the buffer approaches zero. The new rule also generally prohibits a banking organization from making such distributions or payments during any quarter if its eligible retained income is negative and its capital conservation buffer ratio was 2.5% or less at the end of the previous quarter. The eligible retained income of a banking organization is defined as its net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, based on the organization’s quarterly regulatory reports, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income; • Increases capital requirements for past-due loans, high volatility commercial real estate exposures, and certain short-term commitments and securitization exposures; • Expands the recognition of collateral and guarantors in determining risk-weighted assets; and • Removes references to credit ratings consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act and establishes due diligence requirements for securitization exposures. We continue to evaluate the provisions of the final rule and their expected impact on us. Management believes that at December 31, 2013, IBERIABANK Corporation and IBERIABANK would have met all new capital adequacy requirements on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were then effective. However, there can be no assurances that the Basel III capital rules will not be revised before the effective date and expiration of the phase-in periods. Satisfying such new capital standards could materially impact us relative to our peers. The final impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by U.S. banking regulators. These new requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could result in lower returns, result in regulatory actions if we were unable to comply with such requirements, and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with current or new capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. Our recent growth and financial performance will be negatively impacted if we are unable to execute our growth strategy. Our stated strategy is to grow organically and supplement that growth with select acquisitions. Our success depends primarily on generating loans and deposits of acceptable risk and expense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing our organic, or internal, growth strategy. Our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, recruit and retain qualified personnel, and fund growth at a reasonable cost, depends upon prevailing economic conditions, maintenance of sufficient capital, competitive factors, changes in banking laws, and other factors. Supplementing our internal growth through acquisitions is an important part of our strategic focus. Since 1995, approximately 65% of our asset growth has been through acquisitions, or external growth. Our acquisition efforts focus on select markets and targeted entities. We operate in markets we consider to be contiguous, or natural extensions, to our current markets. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking organizations for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. Our issuance of additional equity securities would dilute existing shareholders’ interest in us and may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to combine with us on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue making acquisitions, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business, and we may not grow at the same rate we have grown in the past, or at all. 20 Table of Contents We cannot be certain as to our ability to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities without increased expenses and higher levels of nonperforming assets. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances, which may adversely affect earnings, shareholder returns, and our efficiency ratio. Increases in operating expenses or nonperforming assets may decrease our earnings and the value of our common stock. In addition to the normal operating challenges inherent in managing a larger financial institution, each of our acquisitions and potential future acquisitions is subject to appropriate regulatory approval. Our regulators may require that we demonstrate that we have appropriately integrated our prior acquisitions, or any future acquisitions we may do, before permitting us to engage in any future material acquisitions. FDIC-assisted or other acquisition opportunities may not become available, and increased competition could make it more difficult for us to bid on failed bank and other transactions on terms we consider to be acceptable. A part of our business strategy is to pursue acquisitions, which may include failing banks that are placed into FDIC receivership. The availability of acquisition candidates that meet our strategic objectives can fluctuate, and the FDIC mat not place banks into receivership that meet our strategic objectives. Different from non-FDIC assisted transactions, failed bank transactions typically include loss share arrangements with the FDIC that limit our downside risk on the purchased loan portfolio and, apart from our assumption of deposit liabilities, we have significant discretion as to the non-deposit liabilities that we assume. The terms of loss sharing arrangements may change, making FDIC-assisted transactions less attractive to us. In addition, assets purchased from the FDIC are marked to their fair value and in many cases there is little or no addition to goodwill arising from an FDIC-assisted transaction. In 2013, the number of FDIC failed bank resolutions decreased significantly over the previous year, and consequently, the bidding process for failing banks has become more competitive. The increased competition for such banks has made it more difficult for us to bid on terms we consider acceptable. Like most banking organizations, our business is highly susceptible to credit risk. As a lender, we are is exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to satisfy defaulted loan obligations. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of December 31, 2013, our total loan portfolio was approximately $9.5 billion, or 71% of total assets. At that date, the major components of our loan portfolio included 72% of commercial loans, both real estate and business, 6% of mortgage loans comprised primarily of residential 1-4 family mortgage loans, and 22% of consumer loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment and commercial loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market areas. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. A related risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or otherwise significantly reduce its value as security, or could expose us to remediation liabilities as the lender. Our loan portfolio has and will continue to be affected by the on-going correction in real estate markets, including reduced levels of home sales and declines in the performance of loans. Although real estate market fundamentals have generally improved, there continues to be a slowdown in housing in some of our market areas, reflecting declining prices and excess inventories. We expect the home builder market to continue to be volatile and anticipate continuing pressure on the home builder segment. In addition, many banking institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of other loans, including construction, land development and land loans and commercial loans. We make credit and reserve decisions based on the current conditions of borrowers or projects combined with our expectations for the future. If the slowdown in the housing markets continues, we could experience higher charge-offs and delinquencies beyond that which is provided in the allowance for loan losses. As such, our earnings could be adversely affected through higher than anticipated provisions for loan losses. 21 Table of Contents Our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. The determination of the allowance for credit losses, which represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio, involves a high degree of judgment and complexity. Our policy is to establish reserves for estimated losses on delinquent and other problem loans when it is determined that losses are expected to be incurred on such loans. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on various factors, including an evaluation of the portfolio, past loss experience, current economic conditions, the volume and type of lending conducted by us, composition of the portfolio, the amount of our classified assets, seasoning of the loan portfolio, the status of past due principal and interest payments and other relevant factors. Changes in these estimates may have a significant impact on our financial statements. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses would have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or other loans or investments. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other consumer loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of a material amount of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming assets. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a loss of earnings, an increase in the provision for credit losses or an increase in loan charge-offs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We or our subsidiaries were unable to borrow funds through access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or the operating cash needs to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. IBERIABANK’s liquidity primarily is used to make loans and leases and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by our board of directors. Management and the Investment Committee regularly monitor the overall liquidity position of IBERIABANK and IBERIABANK Corporation to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Management and the Investment Committee also establish policies and monitor guidelines to diversify IBERIABANK’s funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one market source. Funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. IBERIABANK is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB System, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include sales or securitizations of loans, our ability to acquire additional national market, non-core deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private offerings. IBERIABANK also can borrow from the FRB’s discount window. Amounts available under our existing credit facilities as of December 31, 2013, consist of $2.2 billion in FHLB notes and $155.0 million in the form of federal funds and other lines of credit. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in this Report. Additionally, the Company is frequently the recipient of dividends from its subsidiaries, including IBERIABANK, and relies on these dividends as a source of cash flow. The amount of future dividends from IBERIABANK is dependent upon its performance and could be impacted by future unanticipated regulatory limitations. Such events could impact the Company’s ability to issue future dividends and ultimate solvency if other sources of cash flows were not available. 22 Table of Contents If our investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We hold FHLB stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB common stock as of December 31, 2013 was $24.4 million based on its par value. There is no market for FHLB common stock. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capital of a FHLB could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. Our securities portfolio includes securities that are subject to declines in value due to negative perceptions about the health of the financial sector in general and the lack of liquidity for securities that are real estate related. A prolonged decline in the value of these or other securities could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down, which would reduce our earnings. Additionally, while accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) is not currently deducted from regulatory capital under the existing regulatory capital framework, the new Basel III rules require that AOCI be included in the computation of capital and related ratios. Currently, we are of a size that enables us to opt-out of including AOCI in the computation of regulatory capital beginning with our Call report for the quarter ending March 31, 2015. To the extent that we do not opt-out, our regulatory capital and related ratios could be subject to market value adjustments of our securities portfolio and any other current or future measurements that GAAP requires or could require be recognized in including AOCI in the capital and related ratio computations. We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of such expanded infrastructure. Similar to other large corporations, in our case, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or outside persons and exposure to external events. As discussed below, we are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems, which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones depends on the functionality of our technology systems. Additionally, our ability to run its business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities internally. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties who may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into our existing businesses. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our businesses are dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. These transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of our client base and our geographical reach, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements and technological shifts. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide the impaired services. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our clients’ information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients’ systems. If one or more of these cyber incidents occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our clients’ or other third parties’ operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, substantial costs, regulatory penalties and/or client dissatisfaction or loss. Potential costs of a cyber incident may include, but would not be limited to, remediation costs, increased protection costs, lost revenue from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the loss of current and/or future customers, and litigation. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, no assurance can be given that this policy would be sufficient to cover all potential financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third party’s systems failing or experiencing attack. We assume certain additional risks associated with credit card lending and debit cards. Primary risks associated with credit card lending include: (i) credit risk – borrower may hold several credit cards from different issuers, pay only minimum monthly payments and become overextended; (ii) transaction risk – credit card operations are highly automated, have a large transaction volume, are vulnerable to unauthorized access and require strong operational controls; (iii) liquidity risk – credit card obligations require available sources to fund unusual commitments; (iv) strategic risk – each new credit card product and service must be properly evaluated before it is offered; (v) reputation risk – poorly underwritten or performing credit card receivables can affect a bank’s reputation as an underwriter; (vi) re-pricing risk – arises from differences between the timing of interest rate changes and the timing of cash flows; and (vii) compliance risk – consumer laws and regulators, including fair lending and other anti-discrimination laws, rules and regulations affect all aspects of credit card lending. Across the industry, bad debt and fraud losses in credit and debit cards have risen when compared to historical levels. Reasons for increased losses include changes in underwriting standards, mass marketing of cards in a saturated market, consumer bankruptcies and economic factors, as well as evolving schemes to illegally use cards despite risk management practices employed by us and the card industry. We believe that we have established an effective collection process and other internal controls to minimize such losses. The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations. Although we have employed a significant number of additional executive officers and other key personnel, our success continues to depend in large part on the retention of a limited number of key executive management, lending and other banking personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if it were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities’ managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key 24 Table of Contents persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations. The unexpected loss of key senior managers, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We compete for loans, deposits, title business and investment dollars with other banks and other financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, private lenders and title companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. Credit unions have federal tax exemptions that may allow them to offer lower rates on loans and higher rates on deposits than taxpaying financial institutions such as commercial banks. In addition, non-depository institution competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation applicable to institutions, like IBERIABANK, that offer federally insured deposits. Other institutions may have other competitive advantages in particular markets or may be willing to accept lower profit margins on certain products. These differences in resources, regulation, competitive advantages, and business strategy may decrease our net interest margin, may increase our operating costs, and may make it harder for us to compete profitably. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices and/or our financial health could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. We carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions. We may be subject to increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation. IBERIABANK Corporation and IBERIABANK have been named from time to time as defendants in class actions and other litigation relating to our businesses and activities. Litigation may include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us, including our subsidiaries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation is discussed in Note 21 (“Commitments and Contingencies”) to the consolidated financial statements, and in Part I, Item 3 (“Legal Proceedings”) of this Report. Changes in government regulations and legislation could limit our future performance and growth. The banking industry is heavily regulated. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors, not shareholders. The burdens imposed by federal and state regulations put banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors, such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. 25 Table of Contents Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policies may also negatively impact our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our offices are primarily concentrated in selected markets in Louisiana, Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Tennessee and Texas. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following: • an increase in loan delinquencies; • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; • a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Like other coastal areas, some of our markets are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in payment delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events. The implementation of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 could negatively impact our customers’ ability to repay loans and maintain deposit balances and have significant, negative impacts on real estate values in certain geographies in which the Company operates. These events could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, and/or results of operations. The Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (“Biggert-Waters”), became law in 2012 and intended to reform and modernize the National Flood Insurance Program by reducing federal insurance subsidies for certain property in flood-prone areas. The increases in flood insurance premiums proposed by Biggert-Waters were to take effect in the latter part of 2013, but subsequent legislative action has delayed certain flood insurance premium increases. Flood insurance premium increases could significantly slow economic activity in our market areas in which flood insurance policies are issued, as well as impair property owners’ ability to continue to own, and in the case of businesses, operate their facilities. To the extent these borrowers are impacted by Biggert-Waters, their ability to service loans owed to us, and the value of collateral could be adversely impacted. In addition, a decrease in the volume of sales transactions for properties located in these areas, as well as reduced deposit levels maintained by these customers, could result. If there is no repeal or amendment of Biggert-Waters, potential outcomes could include, but not be limited to: lower loan growth, increased past due loans, increased non-performing assets, higher net charge offs, and/or reduced deposit levels. These events, either collectively or individually, could negatively affect our financial condition, liquidity, and/or results of operations. We face substantial competition and are subject to certain regulatory constraints not applicable to some of our competitors. We face substantial competition for deposit, and for credit, title and trust relationships, and other financial services and products in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust 26 Table of Contents companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, title companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by us. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that financial institutions have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Some of our competitors, including credit unions, are not subject to certain regulatory constraints, such as the Community Reinvestment Act, which, among other things, requires us to implement procedures to make and monitor loans throughout the communities we serve. Complying with these regulatory requirements increases the costs associated with our lending activities, including underwriting expenses, and reduces potential operating profits. We face substantial competition and are subject to certain regulatory constraints not applicable to some of our competitors. We face substantial competition for deposit, credit, title and trust relationships and other financial services and products in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, title companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by us. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that financial institutions have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Some of our competitors, including credit unions, are not subject to certain regulatory constraints, such as the Community Reinvestment Act, which, among other things, requires us to implement procedures to make and monitor loans throughout the communities we serve. Complying with these regulatory requirements increases the costs associated with our lending activities, including underwriting expenses, and reduces potential operating profits. We are exposed to intangible asset risk which could negatively impact our financial results. In accordance with GAAP, we record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, and, as such, acquisitions typically result in recording goodwill. We perform a goodwill evaluation at least annually to test for goodwill impairment. As part of its testing, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount using these qualitative factors, the Company then compares the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and then measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance may significantly affect the fair value of our goodwill and may trigger additional impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position. We completed such an evaluation for the Company during the fourth quarter of 2013 and concluded that an impairment charge was not necessary for the year ended December 31, 2013. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge has an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price. Our reported financial results depend on our management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates, and there may be changes in accounting policies or accounting standards that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. Our management must also exercise judgment in selecting assumptions and estimates inherent in deriving certain financial statement line items. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy, method, assumption and/or estimate to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the form and content of our external financial statements. Recently, FASB has proposed new accounting standards related to fair value accounting and accounting for leases that could materially change our financial statements in the future. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. In certain cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently (also retroactively) which may result in it restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Risks Related to FDIC-assisted Transactions and Other Bank Acquisitions The success of FDIC-assisted transactions and other bank acquisitions will depend on a number of uncertain factors. The success of our FDIC-assisted transactions and other bank acquisitions depends on a number of factors, including, without limitation: • our ability to integrate the branches acquired into IBERIABANK’s current operations; • our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired; • our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired branches; • our ability to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence; • our success in deploying the cash received in these transactions into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; • our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches; and • our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches. In any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches, there may be business and service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration of such acquired branches is an operation of substantial size and expense, and may be impacted by general market and economic conditions or government actions affecting the financial industry generally. Integration efforts also are likely to divert our management’s attention and resources. No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate these acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of FDIC-assisted transactions and other bank acquisitions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of acquired branches will not adversely affect our existing profitability, that we will be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, that we will be able to compete effectively in the market areas currently served by the acquired branches, or that we will be able to manage any growth resulting from FDIC-assisted transactions and/or bank acquisitions effectively. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to grow acquired branches following these transactions depends in part on our ability to retain certain key branch personnel we expect to hire and/or retain in connection with these transactions. We believe that the ties these employees have in the local banking markets previously served by their acquired branches are vital to our ability to maintain our relationships with existing customers and to generate new business in these markets. Our failure to hire or retain these employees could adversely affect the success of these transactions and our future growth. Our indemnification assets are highly dependent upon the resolution of covered assets within the coverage period (as outlined in the loss share agreements with the FDIC) and could become impaired if events outside of our control prohibit us from collecting from the FDIC. Our loss share agreements represent $162 million on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013 and of this amount, $38 million is collectible from the FDIC and $10 million is collectible from transactions on other real estate owned. For certain covered assets, loss share coverage expires in the next 12 – 20 months. To the extent that loss share coverage ends prior to triggering events on covered assets that would enable the Company to collect these amounts from the FDIC or OREO transactions, future impairments would be required. The Company is subject to the interpretations of the loss share agreement by the FDIC to include the timing and amount of loss that may be claimed on a particular covered asset. To the extent the FDIC develops new or different interpretations of the loss share agreements, our indemnification assets could become impaired or the Company may be required to remit claims previously received back to the FDIC. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our loss share agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. Our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our loss share agreements or to service properly the loans and OREO under the requirements of the loss share agreements may cause undervalued loans or pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are not currently anticipated. We are subject to the interpretations of the loss share agreement by the FDIC to include the timing and amount of loss that may be claimed on a particular covered asset. To the extent the FDIC develops new or different interpretations of the terms and conditions loss share agreements, our indemnification assets could become impaired or we could be required to remit payments for claims previously received back to the FDIC. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to changes in the expectations of the amount and timing of losses and higher loan charge-offs in connection with acquisition transactions. Some or all of such losses and charge-offs in FDIC assisted transactions may not be supported by the related loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. We have acquired significant loan portfolios through FDIC-assisted transactions and other bank acquisitions. Although these loan portfolios were initially accounted for at fair value, there is no assurance that the loans we acquired will not become impaired in the future, which may result in additional charge-offs to this portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income, and may also increase the level of charge-offs on our loan portfolio that we have acquired in our acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although in our FDIC-assisted transactions we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we have acquired in connection with the FDIC-assisted transactions will be borne by the FDIC, we are not fully protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. The loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Additionally, the terms of the agreements require us to remit to the FDIC recoveries on prior loss claims which could impact our net income. The loss sharing agreements also impose standard requirements on us which must be satisfied in order to retain loss share protections. Deposit and loan run-off rates could exceed the rates we have projected in connection with our planning for the FDIC-assisted transactions and other bank acquisitions and the integration of the acquired branches. 29 Table of Contents Deposit run-off could be higher than our assumptions. As part of acquisition transactions, it is necessary for us to convert customer loan and deposit data from the failed banks’ data processing systems to our data processing system. Delays or errors in the conversion process could adversely affect customer relationships, increase run-off of deposit and loan customers and result in unexpected charges and costs. Similarly, run-off could increase if we are not able to service in a cost-effective manner particular loan or deposit products with special features previously offered by the failed or target banks. Any increase in run-off rates could adversely affect our ability to stimulate growth in such acquired branches, our liquidity, and our results of operations. Risks About Our Common Stock We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to shareholders in the future. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid to us from IBERIABANK. The ability of IBERIABANK to pay dividends to us, as well as our ability to pay dividends to its shareholders, are limited by regulatory and legal restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to the payment of dividends. For instance, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by modest trading volume. The value of your investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock. Our common stock trades on NASDAQ Global Select Market. During 2013, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 158,200 shares. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how much more liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and • other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent our shareholders from selling common stock at or above the public offering price. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. In the past, shareholders often have brought securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to the exercise of outstanding stock options, could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Our management has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from equity offerings. Our management has significant flexibility in applying the proceeds that we receive from equity offerings. Although we have indicated our intent to use the proceeds from recent offerings for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions, our working capital needs, and our investments in our subsidiaries, our management retains significant discretion with respect to uses of proceeds. The proceeds of our offerings may be used in a manner that does not generate a favorable return for us. We may use the proceeds to fund future acquisitions of other businesses. In addition, if we use the funds to acquire other businesses, there can be no assurance that any business we acquire would be successfully integrated into our operations or otherwise perform as expected. We may issue additional securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage. In many situations, our board of directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued stock, including shares authorized and unissued under our stock option plans. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions. Moreover, to the extent we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Any such issuance would dilute the ownership of current holders of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 