D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, before making an investment decision. We also may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may adversely affect our business. In general, you take more risk when you invest in the securities of issuers in emerging markets such as Argentina than when you invest in the securities of issuers in the United States. You should understand that an investment in our common shares and Global Depositary Shares “GDS” involves a high degree of risk, including the possibility of loss of your entire investment. Risks Relating to Argentina We depend on macroeconomic and political conditions in Argentina. We are exposed to economic conditions in Argentina, considering that as of the date of this annual report, substantially all of our assets were located in Argentina and all of our activities are conducted in Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis, which caused a significant economic contraction and led to radical changes in government policies. Among other consequences, the crisis resulted in Argentina defaulting on its foreign debt obligations, introducing emergency measures and numerous changes in economic policies that affected the utility companies and many other sectors of the economy, and suffering a significant devaluation of the Peso, which in turn caused numerous Argentine private sector debtors with foreign currency exposure to default on their outstanding debt. Although the economy has largely recovered from the crisis, during 2014, the Argentine economy has shown signs of slowdown due to the increase in the applicable exchange rates and decreases in commodity prices. The Argentine economy is suffering high inflation and has an increasing need of capital investment, with many sectors, particularly the energy sector, operating near full capacity. An economic slowdown suggests uncertainty as to whether the economic growth experienced in the past decade may be sustainable. This is mainly because economic growth was initially dependent on a significant devaluation of the Argentine Peso, excess production capacity resulting from a long period of deep recession and high commodity prices. Furthermore, the economy has suffered a sustained erosion of direct investment and capital investment. After the 2001 economic crisis, Argentina recovered with significant increases in gross domestic product (“GDP”) at an average of 8.5% on annual basis between 2003 and 2008. As a result of the 2008 global financial crisis, Argentina GDP’s growth rate decreased to 0.9% in 2009, though growth rebounded to 9.2% in 2010 and 8.9% in 2011. During 2012, the Argentine economy experienced a slowdown, with GDP increasing at a rate of 1.9%. In March 2014, the Argentine government announced a new method of calculating GDP as requested by the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) (using 2004 as the base year instead of 1993, which was 4 the base reference year used in the prior method of GDP calculation). Following changes in the methodology used in calculating GDP, the National Institute of Statistics (“Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos” or the “INDEC”) reported that Argentina’s GDP’s growth rate for 2013 was 3% and 0.5% for 2014. This decrease was principally due to the deceleration of the global economy and macroeconomic conditions in Argentina during 2014. As of July 31, 2015, the Monthly Economic Activity Estimator (Estimador Mensual de Actividad Económica, or the “EMAE”) increased 2.7%, relative to the same period in the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC. Argentina’s relative stability since 2002 has been affected by increased social and political tension and government intervention in the economy. Our business depends to a significant extent on macroeconomic and political conditions in Argentina. Deterioration of the country’s economy would likely have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuing inflation may have an adverse effect on the economy. According to the INDEC, the consumer price index increased 23.9%, 10.9% and 10.8% in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2015, increased 15.0% relative to the same period the prior year. Uncertainty surrounding future inflation rates has slowed any potential recovery in the long-term credit market. Private estimates, on average, refer to annual rates of inflation substantially in excess of those published by the INDEC. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to foster conditions that would permit stable growth. High inflation may also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness in international markets and adversely affect economic activity and employment, as well as our business and results of operation. In particular, the margin on our services is impacted by the increase in our costs in providing those services, which is influenced by wage inflation in Argentina, as well as other factors. While certain of our tenant leases include provisions that allow us to agree with our tenants to periodical increases of the lease prices, there can be no assurance that these provisions will adequately protected us against rapid inflation. High inflation would also adversely affect economic activity, employment, real salaries, consumption and interest rates. In addition, the dilution of the positive effects of the Peso devaluation on the export-oriented sectors of the Argentine economy will decrease the level of economic activity in the country. In turn, 5% of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Reference Stabilization Coefficient (“Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia or the “CER”, as per its acronym in Spanish), a currency index that is strongly tied to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in Argentina’s debt and, consequently, the country’s financial obligations. The government has taken certain measures in order to control inflation, such as implementing a fair price program, by virtue of which supermarkets have to offer certain products at a government-determined price, and sectorial agreements in order to implement salary increases. Additionally, the Argentine government has recently enacted Law N° 26,991 (the “Supply Law”), which amends Law N° 20,680, and enables the federal government to intervene in certain markets when it considers that any party to such market is trying to impose prices, or supply restrictions over such market. The Supply Law provides among others pecuniary sanctions, suspension, seizure of operations, and confiscation of goods. If inflation remains high or continues to rise, Argentina’s economy may be negatively impacted and our business could be adversely affected. There are concerns about the accuracy of Argentina’s official inflation statistics. In January 2007, the INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index, which was calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. At the time that the INDEC adopted this change in methodology the Argentine government also replaced several key officers at the INDEC, prompting complaints of governmental interference from the technical staff at the INDEC. In addition, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) requested to clarify its inflation rates several times. On November 23, 2010, the Argentine government began consulting with the IMF for technical assistance in order to prepare a new national consumer price index with the aim of modernizing the current statistical system. During the first quarter of 2011, a team from the IMF started working in conjunction with the INDEC in order to create such an index. Notwithstanding such efforts, reports published by the IMF stated that its staff also used alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, and such measures have shown inflation rates that are considerably higher than those issued by the INDEC since 2007. Consequently, the IMF called on Argentina to adopt measures to improve the quality of used data by the INDEC. In a meeting held on February 1, 2013, the Executive Board of the IMF emphasized that the progress in implementing remedial measures since September 2012 has not been sufficient. As a result, the IMF issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with the breach of its related obligations to the IMF and called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the inaccuracy of inflation and GDP data without further delay. In order to address the quality of official data, a new consumer price index denominated Urban National Consumer’s Price Index (“Indice de Precios al Consumidor Nacional urbano” or the “IPCNu”), was enacted on February 13, 2014. For the year ended December 31, 2014 the IPCNu was 23.9%. The IPCNu represents the first national indicator to measure changes in prices of household goods for final consumption. While the previous price index only measured inflation in the Greater Buenos Aires, the IPCNu is calculated by measuring prices of goods across the entire urban population of the 23 provinces of Argentina and the City of Buenos Aires. The IMF declared that it was going to review later in 2014 Argentina’s reports on progress in revising its inflation and gross domestic product statistics. However, as of the date of this annual report, it is still being reviewed by the IMF. In addition, in February 2014, the INDEC released a new GDP index for 2013, equal to 3.0%, which differs from the GDP index originally released by the INDEC for the same period which was 5.5%. In December 15, 2014, the IMF recognized the progress of Argentine authorities to remedy the inaccurate provision of data, but has delayed the definitive evaluation of the new index. If the IMF finds that the methodology of INDEC for calculating a new national consumer price index or GDP is inaccurate, or concludes that its methodology should be adjusted, that could result in financial and economic hazards for Argentina, including lack of financing from such organization. If these measures are adopted, the Argentine economy could suffer adverse effects, either by limiting access to international financial markets or increasing the financing cost associated therewith, which in turn wouldadversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding these measures to address appropriate inflation statistics, there are private reports implying significantly higher inflation rates than the official reports of the INDEC. Despite the changes adopted by the INDEC to the measurement procedure with the IPCNu, there are still some differences between the figures resulting from this indicator and those recorded by private consultants, the Argentine Congress and the provincial statistic agencies. If it is determined that it is necessary to unfavorably adjust the consumer price index and other INDEC indices, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and public policies and foster economic growth. Argentina’s 2001 default and its failure to fully restructure its sovereign debt and negotiate with the holdout creditors has limited and may continue to limit Argentina’s ability to access international capital markets. In 2005, Argentina completed the restructuring of a substantial portion of its indebtedness and settled all of its debt with the IMF. Additionally, in June 2010, Argentina completed the renegotiation of approximately 67% of the defaulted bonds that were not swapped in the 2005 restructuring. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 debt swaps, Argentina has restructured approximately 92.4% of its defaulted debt that was eligible for restructuring. Holdout creditors that declined to participate in the exchanges commenced numerous lawsuits against Argentina in several countries, including the United States, Italy, Germany, and Japan. Additionally, on May 29, 2014, the Argentine government and representatives of the Paris Club creditors reached an agreement to clear Argentina’s debt due to the Paris Club creditors, in arrears, in the total amount of US$9.7 billion as of April 30, 2014. 5 In related cases brought before the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the “District Court”), the plaintiffs argued that allowing Argentina to make payments under the new bonds issued pursuant to the debt swaps while it remained in default on its pre-2002 bonds violates the pari passu clause in the original bonds and entitles the plaintiffs to injunctive relief barring Argentina from making payments on the new bonds without making comparable payments on the original bonds. In late October 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York affirmed the District Court’s ruling that the pari passu clause in the pre-2002 bonds prevents Argentina from making payments unless it makes ratable payments to the holdout creditors at the same time. On November 21, 2012, the District Court specified that ratable payments to the holdout creditors would be the full amount owed on the bonds (including interest) and ordered Argentina to pay approximately US$1.3 billion plus interest owed to the holdout creditors’ party to such proceedings. On appeal, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ordered Argentina to submit a payment plan proposal for the holdout creditors, which Argentina did on March 29, 2013. On August 23, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit rejected Argentina’s payment proposal and affirmed the District Court’s November 21, 2012 injunctions (the “Injunction”). However, in the same ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit stayed the enforcement of the injunctions pending the resolution by the U.S. Supreme Court of any timely petition for a writ of certiorari. In this regard, Argentina filed a petition for a writ of certiorari on June 24, 2013, which was denied as premature. Later, on February 18, 2014, Argentina and certain holders of the new bonds timely filed petitions for a writ of certiorari. On June 16, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court denied Argentina’s petition for a writ of certiorari in connection therewith and, subsequently, on June 18, 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit lifted its stay on the District Court’s Injunction. Separately, on June 16, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed a District Court ruling to compel discovery from certain financial institutions concerning, among other things, Argentina’s assets. On June 23, 2014, the District Court appointed a special master to mediate settlement negotiations between Argentina and the litigating bondholders. On June 26, 2014, the District Court denied Argentina’s request for a further stay of the Injunction. In addition, on or about June 27, 2014, Argentina transferred to The Bank of New York Mellon, in its capacity as trustee, amounts due June 30, 2014 in respect of certain of its restructured bonds. The District Court, however, prohibited such payment and ordered Argentina and the holders of its non-restructured bonds to agree on a payment schedule. Following negotiations between Argentina and the litigating bondholders, Argentina and such bondholders failed to reach an agreement in respect of its defaulted debt. By July 30, 2014, the end of the grace period provided under Argentina’s relevant restructured bonds for the payment of debt service thereunder, Argentina and the holdout creditors had not arrived on an agreement and The Bank of New York Mellon complied with the order of the District Court to not deliver the funds previously deposited by Argentina for payment to the holders of the restructured bonds under foreign law. While Argentina asserted that it complied with its obligation to the holders of the restructured bonds by making such deposit, and that the indenture trustee had the obligation to deliver such payment, on such date Standard & Poor’s Rating Services downgraded Argentina’s foreign currency credit rating to “selective default”, or “SD”, while on July 31, 2014, Fitch Ratings Inc. downgraded Argentina’s foreign currency issuer default rating to “restricted default”, or “RD”. On September 11, 2014, the Argentine Congress enacted Law N° 26,984, with the purpose of implementing legal mechanisms to allow restructured bondholders to collect payments under such bonds. Law N° 26,984 established a new account in the name of Nación Fideicomisos S.A. with the Central Bank in order to make payments to restructured bondholders. Furthermore, Law N° 26,984 set forth that the executive branch could implement an exchange of restructured bonds for Argentine law-governed bonds and for French law-governed bonds. As of the date of this annual report, no such mechanism has been implemented by the Argentine government. Separately, during August 2014 the Central Bank revoked The Bank of New York Mellon’s authorization to operate in Argentina. In connection with these and other actions taken by the Argentine government, the District Court held Argentina in contempt on September 29, 2014. The District Court authorized limited exceptions to the Injunction allowing certain custodians of Argentine law-governed bonds to process payments in August 2014, September 2014 and December 2014. Payments on the remaining restructured bonds have not been processed as a consequence of the Injunction and various restructured bondholders have been seeking the release of such payments in court. As of the date of this annual report, the District Court has not authorized any other such releases or payments. On January 2, 2015, Argentina deposited, for the benefit of the restructured bondholders, approximately US$1,000 million corresponding to the payment dated December 31, 2014. In addition, the Argentine government deposited US$539 million in Nación Fideicomisos S.A. to service interest of certain restructured bonds under foreign legislation and another amount reserved for payment to the holdouts, frozen as of the date of this annual report, as ordered by the District Court, in the accounts of Bank of New York in the Central Bank. At the date of this annual report, the consequences of the passage of the new sovereign payments law or the development and the effects of the NML Capital case could have on our business and operations are not clear. The Argentine government successfully appealed such decision, and on August 10, 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit stated that the District Court had improperly expanded a class of bondholders who were seeking repayment following the 2002 default; stating that the District Court must return to a narrower definition of class, limited to those who have continuously held the eight series of bonds in question, and to hold a hearing to determine the proper amount of damages. In addition, the District Court stated in another ruling that he considers all Argentine government assets in the United States, except for diplomatic and military, as commercial assets which NML Capital could try to seize. This decision have allowed the funds to request for the attachment of these assets, which have fallen specially on the Central Bank, Banco de la Nación Argentina, bank accounts of certain embassies, the Aquarius SAC-D satellite and the Frigate Libertad , among other assets. Meanwhile, Argentina’s lawyers and officials believe and argue that there are only diplomatic assets protected by sovereign immunity. In this context, the District Court ordered Argentina to provide information about assets in the United States within ten days and said that if the country holds assets which have no diplomatic or military purposes; they can be attached, being considered “commercial use”. On August 31, 2015 the Argentine government won an appeals court ruling. Such ruling denied a motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction filed by the Central Bank, stating that the District Court erred in: (1) imputing the Argentine government’s waiver of sovereign immunity to the Central Bank based on an alter‐ego theory; and (2) applying the commercial‐activity exception to Central Bank’s use of its account with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Accordingly, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court’s order of September 26, 2013, and remands the cause with instructions to dismiss the complaint on sovereign immunity grounds. Also, on September 16, 2015, the Argentine government won an additional appeals court ruling, which noted that defining a precise class to which Argentina owes damages for refusing to pay bondholders and calculating those damages have been "exasperating tasks," stating that “Judge Thomas P. Griesa was making it too easy for some plaintiffs by creating a class including bondholders who were not the original purchasers of the bonds”, while objective criteria may be necessary to define an ascertainable class, it cannot be the case that any objective criterion will do." The continuation and outcome of this litigation may continue to prevent Argentina from obtaining favorable terms or interest rates when accessing international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors or other parties may result in material judgments against the Argentine government and could result in attachments of, or injunctions relating to, Argentina’s assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and affect our ability to access international financing. In addition, litigation initiated by holdouts could eventually bring Argentina to be considered in default of its obligations and cause acceleration of the existing exchange debt due to cross default clauses which could have a material adverse effect on the on the country’s economy, and consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Argentina is subject to litigation by foreign shareholders of Argentine companies and holders of Argentina’s defaulted bonds, which have resulted and may result in adverse judgments or injunctions against Argentina’s assets and limit its financial resources. Foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies, including public utilities, and bondholders that did not participate in the exchange offers described above, have filed claims in excess of US$20 billion in the aggregate with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (the “ICSID”) alleging that the emergency measures adopted by the government differ from the just and equal treatment standards set forth in several bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. During 2013, Argentina agreed to settle five separate investment treaty arbitration claims at a cost of around US$500 million. As of December 31, 2014, there were ICSID judgments outstanding against Argentina for approximately US$64 million, plus interest and expenses. On April 9, 2015, the ICSID held that Argentina must pay US$405 million in damages for prejudices suffered in relation to the termination of the Aguas Argentinas S.A. water and waste water management concession contract in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area. Litigation, as well as ICSID and UNCITRAL claims against the Argentine government, have resulted in material judgments and may result in new material judgments against the government, and could result in attachments of or injunctions relating to assets of Argentina that the government intended for other uses. As a result, the Argentine government may not have all the necessary financial resources to honor its obligations, implement reforms and foster growth, which could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy, and consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The amendment of the Central Bank’s Charter and the Convertibility Law may adversely affect the Argentine economy. On March 22, 2012, the Argentine Congress passed Law N° 26,739, which amended the charter of the Central Bank and Law N° 23,298 (the “Convertibility Law”). See “Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth” above. This new law amends the objectives of the Central Bank (established in its charter) and removes certain provisions previously in force. Pursuant to the amendment, the Central Bank focuses on promoting monetary and financial stability as well as development with social equity. A key component of the amendment of the Central Bank charter relates to the use of international reserves. Pursuant to this amendment, the Central Bank reserves may be made available to the government for the repayment of debt or to finance public expenses. During 2013, the currency reserves in U.S. Dollars held by the Argentine government in the Central Bank decreased significantly, from US$43.3 billion in 2012 to US$30.6 billion in 2013, while during 2014 the reserves increased slightly to US$31.4 billion as of December 31, 2014. The Central Bank’s stock of foreign currency reserves was US$33.9 billion as of June 30, 2015 and after the payment of the sovereign bond, BODEN 15, on October 3, 2015, the stock of foreign currency reserves was US$ 27.7 billion. This use of the Central Bank reserves for expanded purposes by the Argentine government may result in Argentina being more vulnerable to inflation or external shocks, affecting the country’s capacity to overcome the effects of an external crisis. Significant fluctuation in the value of the Peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance. The devaluation of the Peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, initially led to very high inflation, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. Since the strengthening of exchange controls began in late 2011, and upon the introduction of measures that have limited access to foreign currency by private companies and individuals, (such as requiring an authorization of tax authorities to access the foreign currency exchange market), the implied exchange rate, as reflected in the quotations for Argentine securities that trade in foreign markets compared to the corresponding quotations in the local market, has increased significantly over the official exchange rate. These measures may prevent or limit us from offsetting the risk derived from our exposure to the U.S. Dollar and, if so, we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our financial condition and results of operations. If the Peso continues to devalue, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could reappear, with adverse consequences on our business. Moreover, it would likely result in a material adverse effect in our business as a result of the exposure to financial commitments denominated in U.S. Dollar. While certain of our office space leases are denominated in U.S. Dollars, we are only partially protected against Peso devaluation as payment is fixed in Pesos and there can be no assurance we will be able to maintain our U.S. Dollar-denominated leases. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities, such as us. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the Peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and our business. Certain measures that may be taken by the Argentine government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations. During recent years, the Argentine government has increased its direct intervention in the economy through the implementation or change of laws and regulations, such as: nationalizations, or expropriations, among others; restrictions on production, imports and exports; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases, changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; cancellation of contract rights; delays or denials of governmental approvals, among others. In November 2008, the Argentine government enacted Law N° 26,425 which provided for the nationalization of the Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (the “AFJPs”). More recently, beginning in April 2012, the Argentine government provided for the nationalization of YPF S.A. and imposed major changes to the system under which oil companies operate, principally through the enactment of Law N° 26,741 and Decree N° 1277/2012. In February 2014, the Argentine government and Repsol S.A. (the former principal shareholder of YPF S.A.) announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of the compensation payable to Repsol for the expropriation of the YPF S.A. shares. Such compensation totaled US$5 billion, payable by delivery of Argentine sovereign bonds with various maturities. In April 23, 2014, the agreement with Repsol was approved by the Argentine Congress and accordingly, in May 8, 2014, Repsol, S.A. received the relevant Argentine government bonds. Additionally, on December 19, 2012, the Argentine government issued Decree N° 2552/12, which, ordered the expropriation of the “Predio Rural de Palermo.” However, on January 4, 2013, the Federal Civil and Commercial Chamber granted an injunction that momentarily blocked the enforceability of Decree N° 2,552/2012; notwithstanding the foregoing on June 1, 2015, the injunction was released. On June 2, 2015, this decision was appealed, and as a result the aforementioned injunction is still effective and the effects of the Decree N° 2552/12 remain blocked as of the date hereof. The Argentine government filed a motion to revoke the injuction which was rejected by the Federal Civil and Commercial Chamber and as a consequence the Argentine government filed an extraordinary motion with the Supreme Court, which as of the date of this annual report has not been resolved. The Decree N° 2552/12 may indirectly affect our investment in Entertainment Holding S.A. (“EHSA”). Furthermore, on May 18, 2015, we were notified that the Agencia de Administración de Bienes del Estado (“AABE”), revoked the concession agreement granted to our subsidiary Arcos del Gourmet S.A, through Resolution N° 170/2014. On June 2, 2015, we filed before the AABE a request to declare the notification void, as certain formal proceedings required under Argentine law have not been complied by the AABE. Furthermore, we intend to file shortly an administrative appeal in order to request the dismissal of the revocation of the agreement. As of the date of this annual report, the “Distrito Arcos” shopping center continues to operate normally. 7 There are other recent examples of government intervention. In December 2012 and August 2013, the Argentine Congress established new regulations relating to domestic capital markets. The new regulations generally provide for increased intervention in the capital markets by the government, authorizing, for example, the CNV to appoint observers with the ability to veto the decisions of the board of directors of companies admitted to the public offering regime under certain circumstances and suspend the board of directors for a period of up to 180 days. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government, such as expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, new taxation policies, changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, etc., will not have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. Argentine presidential, congressional and certain municipal and state government elections are to be held in October 2015. Uncertainty resulting from the election campaigns regarding the results of the elections, or as a result of uncertainty as to whether the new Argentine government will implement changes in policy or regulation, may adversely affect the Argentine economy. The President of Argentina and its Congress each have considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Argentine economy and, consequently, may affect our results of operations or financial condition. We can offer no assurances that the policies that may be implemented by the Argentine government after such elections will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which would increase our operating costs. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees and may do so again in the future. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis, employers both in the public and private sectors experienced significant pressure from their employees and labor organizations to increase wages and to provide additional employee benefits. In August 2012, the Argentine government established a 25% increase in minimum monthly salary to Ps.2,875, effective as of February 2013. The Argentine government increased the minimum salary to Ps.3,300 in August 2013, to Ps.3,600 in January 2014, to Ps.4,400 in September 2014, to Ps.4,716 in January 2015, to Ps. 5,588 in August 2015 and to Ps. 6,060 from January 2016. Due to ongoing high levels of inflation, employers in both the public and private sectors continue to experience significant pressure from unions and their employees to increase salaries. During the year ended December 31, 2014, various unions have agreed with employers’ associations on salary increases between 25% and 30%. It is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future. Any such measures could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Property values in Argentina could decline significantly. Property values are influenced by multiple factors that are beyond our control, such as a decrease in the demand for real estate properties due to a deterioration of macroeconomic conditions or an increase in supply of real estate properties that could adversely affect our current prices. We cannot assure you that property values will increase or that they will not be reduced. Most of the properties we own are located in Argentina. As a result, a reduction in the value of properties in Argentina could materially affect our business. Restrictions on transfers of foreign currency and the repatriation of capital from Argentina may impair our ability to pay dividends and distributions. According to current Argentine practices the Argentine government may impose restrictions on the exchange of Argentine currency into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from investments in Argentina in circumstances where a serious imbalance develops in Argentina’s balance of payments or where there are reasons to foresee such an imbalance. Beginning in December 2001, the Argentine government implemented a number of monetary and foreign exchange control measures that included restrictions on the free disposition of funds deposited with banks and on the transfer of funds abroad without prior approval by the Central Bank, some of which are still in effect. Among the restrictions that are still in effect are those relating to the repatriation of certain funds collected in Argentina by non-Argentine residents. On January 7, 2003, the Central Bank issued communication “A” 3859, which is still in force and pursuant to which there are no limitations on company’s ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends, provided that those dividends arise from net earnings corresponding to approved and audited financial statements. Although the transfer of funds abroad by local companies in order to pay annual dividends only to foreign shareholders, based on approved and fully audited financial statements, does not require formal approval by the Central Bank, the recent decrease in availability of U.S. Dollars in Argentina has led the Argentine government to impose informal restrictions on certain local companies and individuals for purchasing foreign currency. These restrictions on foreign currency purchases started in October 2011 and tightened thereafter through the date of this annual report. As a result of these informal restrictions, local residents and companies may be prevented from purchasing foreign currency through the foreign exchange market (“Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios” or “MULC”) for the purpose of making payments abroad, such as dividends, capital reductions, and payment for importation of goods and services. For example, local banks may request, even when not expressly required by any regulation, the prior opinion of the Central Bank before executing any specific foreign exchange transaction. In addition, other exchange controls could impair or prevent the conversion of anticipated dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of equity holdings in Argentina, as the case may be, from Argentine Pesos into U.S. Dollars and the remittance of the U.S. Dollars abroad. In the future, the Argentine government or the Central Bank may impose formal restrictions to the payment of dividends abroad and established additional requirements. Any restrictions on transferring funds abroad imposed by the government could undermine our ability to pay dividends on our GDSs in U.S. Dollars. Also, if payments cannot be made in U.S. Dollars abroad, the repatriation of any funds collected by foreign investors in Argentine Pesos in Argentina may be subject to restrictions. From October 28, 2011, in order for a non-Argentine investor to be granted access to the MULC to purchase foreign currency with Argentine Pesos received in Argentina as a result of a stock sale, capital reduction or liquidation of an Argentine company, it is a requirement that the funds originally used for such investment, disbursement or capital contribution, as applicable, were settled through the MULC. This requirement applies only to capital contributions to local companies or foreign currency purchases of the stock of an Argentine company made from October 28, 2011 that qualify as “foreign direct investments” (i.e., represent at least 10% of the Argentine company’s capital stock). In the case of equity positions below the 10% threshold, repatriation is subject to a monthly threshold of US$0.5 million. Transfers in excess of that monthly threshold are subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. The Argentine government could adopt further restrictive measures in the future. If that were the case, a foreign shareholder, such as ourselves, may be prevented from converting the Argentine Pesos it receives in Argentina into U.S. Dollars. If the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when we cannot convert the foreign currency, we may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution or sale proceeds. 8 These restrictions and requirements could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. In June 2005, the government issued Decree N° 616/2005, which established additional controls on capital inflow, including the requirement that, subject to limited exemptions, 30% of all funds remitted to Argentina remain deposited in a domestic financial institution for one year without earning any interest. In October 2011, new exchange controls measures that restrict foreign exchange inflows and outflows of capital were implemented, including, establishing as a requirement for the repatriation of the direct investment of non-residents (purchase of shares of local companies and real estate), the inflow of foreign currency and its settlement in the MULC. This measure increases the cost of obtaining foreign funds and limits access to such financing. Additionally, on July 12, 2012, the Central Bank issued Communication “A” 5318, which among others suspended the access to MULC for residents for external assets without a specific purpose. Through resolution N°. 3210/2011 of the AFIP and the Communications “A” 5239, 5240, 5242 and 5245 and its amendments of the Central Bank, the “Consultation of Exchange Operations Programme”, was established, a system by which an assessment is made at the time of each transaction, in order to allow for acquiring U.S. Dollars for tourism purposes. The system analyzes the transaction for consistency with each currency buyer’s tax information, and validates or invalidates the transaction. In January 2014, the Central Bank established by Communication ”A” 5526 that resident individuals in the country will be able to access the local exchange market for purchases made in line with the ”buy for the possession of foreign currency in the country” concept according to their income declared to the AFIP and other quantitative parameters established in the framework of exchange rate policy. In this sense, the AFIP established through its General Resolution N° 3583/2014 a parameter of 20% of the monthly income of the taxpayer validating the exchange transaction, with a minimum amount of monthly income of two minimum mobile wages and a monthly cap of US$2,000. The purchase amount that individuals can access under this provision can be found through the “Exchange Operations Consultation Program”, available on the corporate website of the AFIP. Additionally, on May 21, 2015 pursuant to Communication “A” 5757, the Central Bank amended Communication “A” 5526, which regulates residents’ access to the MULC for the acquisition of foreign currency for their application to specific uses and/or purposes in local assets. The amendment permits simultaneous access to the MULC for the acquisition of foreign currency for its deposit in local financial institutions up to an amount agreed with the MULC for a term no higher than 270 calendar days, deriving from the issuance of new debt securities with public offering issued by local governments and/or residents of the non-financial private sector. Such funds can only be allocated for their deposit in local financial institutions as a fixed-term deposit, or in a special account in foreign currency, which can be withdrawn only for its settlement through the MULC. These funds are exempt from the mandatory deposit of 30% imposed by Decree N° 616/2005. At least 80% of residents’ foreign currency demands of residents must be covered by the funds obtained from this mechanism for specific purposes in local assets. The Argentine government may, in the future, impose additional controls on the foreign exchange market and on capital flows from and into Argentina, in response to capital flight or depreciation of the Peso. These restrictions may have a negative effect on the economy and on our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is constrained. For more information, please see “Exchange Rates and Exchange Controls”. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. The international scenario shows contradictory signals of global growth, as well as high financial and exchange uncertainty. Most emerging economies have been affected by the change in the U.S. monetary policy, resulting in the sharp unwinding of speculative asset positions, depreciations and increased volatility in the value of their currencies and higher interest rates. The general appreciation of the U.S. Dollar resulting from a more restrictive U.S. monetary policy contributed to the fall of the international price of raw materials, increasing the difficulties of emerging countries which are exporters of these products. There is global uncertainty about the degree of economic recovery in the United States, with no substantial positive signals from other developed countries and an increased risk of a general deceleration in developing countries, specifically China. Moreover, the recent challenges faced by the European Union to stabilize certain of its member economies, such as Greece, have had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets, which has hindered economies worldwide. The Eurozone finance ministers, at a meeting held in August 2015, agreed a third bailout deal for Greece, which required the approval of several countries such as Germany, one of its main creditors. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into other countries. International investors’ reactions to events occurring in one market sometimes demonstrate a “contagion” effect in which an entire region or class of investment is disfavored by international investors. Argentina could be adversely affected by negative economic or financial developments in other countries, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Lower capital inflows and declining securities prices negatively affect the real economy of a country through higher interest rates or currency volatility. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina is also affected by the economic conditions of its major trade partners, Brazil, which started to devaluate its currency in early February 2015, the Real devalued against the U.S. Dollars by approximately 46% from January 2015 to September 2015, causing the Real to suffer the steepest depreciation in over a decade in its attempt to increase exports; in addition, during September 2015, Standard & Poor’s downgraded Brazil’s credit rating to BB-plus and during October 2015, Fitch Ratings downgraded Brazil’s credit rating to ‘BBB. Moreover, Argentina may also be affected by other countries that have influence over world economic cycles, such as the United States or China. Particularly, China has recently devaluated the Yuan, which has adversely affected companies with a substantial exposure to that country. If interest rates rise significantly in developed economies, including the United States, Argentina and other emerging market economies could find it more difficult and expensive to borrow capital and refinance existing debt, which would negatively affect their economic growth. In addition, if these developing countries, which are also Argentina’s trade partners, fall into a recession; the Argentine economy would be affected by a decrease in exports. All of these factors would have a negative impact on us, our business, operations, financial condition and prospects. The effect of global economic conditions on Argentina could cause a reduction in exports and foreign direct investment, and a decline in national tax revenues and the inability to access to the international capital markets, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A decline in the international prices for Argentina’s main commodity exports could have an adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth and on our business. High commodity prices have contributed significantly to the increase in Argentine exports since the third quarter of 2002 as well as in governmental 9 revenues from export taxes (withholdings). However, this reliance on the export of certain commodities, such as soy, has made the Argentine economy more vulnerable to fluctuations in their prices. If international commodity prices decline, the Argentine government’s revenues would decrease significantly affecting Argentina’s economic activity. Accordingly, a decline in international commodity prices could adversely affect Argentina’s economy, which in turn would produce a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, adverse weather conditions can affect the production of commodities by the agricultural sector, which account for a significant portion of Argentina’s export revenues. These circumstances would have a negative impact on the levels of government revenues, available foreign exchange and the government’s ability to service its sovereign debt, and could either generate recessionary or inflationary pressures, depending on the government’s reaction. Either of these results would adversely impact Argentina’s economy growth and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on the supply of energy could negatively affect Argentina’s economy. As a result of prolonged recession, and the forced conversion into Pesos and subsequent freeze of natural gas and electricity tariffs in Argentina, there has been a lack of investment in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. At the same time, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and price constraints, which has prompted the government to adopt a series of measures that have resulted in industry shortages and/or costs increase. In particular, Argentina has been importing natural gas in order to compensate the shortages in local production. In order to pay for natural gas imports, the Argentine government has frequently used the Central Bank reserves due to absence of incoming currencies from investment. If the government is unable to pay for the natural gas imported in order to produce electricity, business and industries may be affected. The Argentine government has been taking a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of energy shortages on residential and industrial users. If these measures prove to be insufficient, or if the investment that is required to increase natural gas production transportation capacity and energy generation over the medium-and long-term fails to materialize on a timely basis, economic activity in Argentina could be curtailed which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. As a first step of these measures, subsidies on energy tariffs were withdrawn to industries and high income consumers. Additionally, since 2011, a series of rate increases and the reduction of subsidies mainly among industries and high-income consumers were implemented. As a result, energy costs increased significantly, which could substantially and adversely affect the Argentine economy, as well as our business operations and results of our transaction. High public expenditure could result in long- lasting adverse consequences for the Argentine economy. During the last few years, the Argentine government has substantially increased public expenditures. In 2014, public sector expenditures increased by 43% year over year and the government reported a primary fiscal deficit of 0.9%. During recent years, the Argentine government has resorted to the Central Bank and to the Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (Federal Social Security Agency, or “ANSES”, per its acronym in Spanish) to source part of its funding requirements. Recently, the Argentine government has begun adjusting its subsidy policies, particularly those related to energy, electricity and gas, water and public transportation. Changes in these policies could materially and adversely impact consumer purchase capacity and economic activity and may lead to an increase in prices. Moreover, the primary fiscal balance could be negatively affected in the future if public expenditures continue to increase at a rate higher than revenues due to subsidies to lower-income sectors, social security benefits, financial assistance to provinces with financial problems, increased spending on public works and subsidies to the energy and transportation sectors. A further deterioration in fiscal accounts could negatively affect the government’s ability to access the long-term financial markets and could in turn result in more limited access to such markets by Argentine companies. Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to risks inherent to the operation of shopping centers that may affect our profitability. Our shopping centers are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability, including: · decline in our lease prices or increases in levels of default by our tenants due to recessions, increases in interest rates and other factors that we cannot control; · the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; · the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; · the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; · increasing competition from internet sales; · the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; · changes in consumer demand and availability of consumer credit (considering the limits impose by the Central Bank to interest rates charged by financial institutions), both of which are highly sensitive to general macroeconomic conditions; and · fluctuations in occupancy levels in our shopping centers. An increase in our operating costs, caused by inflation or by other factors, could have a material adverse effect on us if our tenants are unable to pay higher rent due to the increase in expenses. Moreover, the shopping center business is closely related to consumer spending and to the economy in which customers are located. All of our shopping centers are in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business could be seriously affected by a recession in Argentina. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, spending decreased significantly, unemployment, political instability and inflation significantly reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some tenants to leave our shopping centers. Persistently poor economic conditions in Argentina will likely have a material adverse effect on the revenues from shopping center activity and thus on our business. Our performance is subject to risks associated with our properties and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets are subject to the risk that our properties may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to service our debt and to cover other expenses may be adversely affected. 10 Events or conditions beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations or the value of our properties include: · downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; · volatility and decline in discretionary spending; · competition from other shopping centers and office, and commercial buildings; · local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for retail, office, or other commercial space; · decreases in consumption levels; · changes in interest rates and availability of financing; · the exercise by our tenants of their legal right to early termination of their leases; · vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; · increased operating costs, including insurance expense, salary increases, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; · civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; · significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; · declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants; · changes in our ability or our tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, possibly decreasing the useful life of and revenue from property; · changes in law or governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes) or government action such as expropriation, confiscation or revocation of concessions; and · interpretation by judges of the New Civil Code (in force from August 1, 2015). If any one or more of the foregoing conditions were to affect our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An adverse economic environment for real estate companies such as a credit crisis may have a significant adversel impact on our results of operations and business prospects. The success of our business and profitability of our operations are dependent on continued investment in the real estate markets and access to capital and debt financing. A long term crisis of confidence in real estate investments and lack of credit for acquisitions may tend to constrain our business growth. As part of our business goals, we intend to increase our properties portfolio with strategic acquisitions of core properties at advantageous prices, where we believe we can bring the necessary expertise to enhance property values. In order to pursue acquisitions, we may need access to equity capital and/or debt financing. Any disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the near future. Any consideration of sales of existing properties or portfolio interests may be tempered by decreasing property values. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness depends on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. If a recurrence of the disruptions in financial markets remains or arises in the future, there can be no assurances that government responses to such disruptions will restore investor confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. The loss of significant tenants could adversely affect both the operating revenues and value of our properties. If certain of our most important tenants were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, or if we simply failed to retain their patronage, our business could be adversely affected. Our shopping centers are typically anchored by significant tenants, such as well-known department stores who generate shopping traffic at the mall. Further, certain tenants are also very important for our office buildings. A decision by such significant tenants to cease operations at our shopping centers or our office buildings, as applicable, could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of the affected segment and, by extension, on our financial condition and results of our operations. In addition, the closing of one or more significant tenants at our shopping centers may induce other major tenants at an affected property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the property. Moreover, key tenants at one or more properties might terminate their leases as a result of mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies. The bankruptcy and/or closure of one or more significant tenants, if we are not able to successfully re-lease the affected space, could have a material adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the properties involved. We may face risks associated with property acquisitions. We have in the past acquired, and intend to acquire in the future, properties, including large properties that would increase our size and potentially alter our capital structure. Although we believe that the acquisitions that we have completed in the past and that we expect to undertake in the future have, and will, enhance our future financial performance, the success of such transactions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the risk that: · we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms; · acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; · the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates; and · acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. If we acquire new properties, we may not be able to efficiently integrate acquired properties, particularly portfolios of properties, into our organization and to manage new properties in a way that allows us to realize cost savings and synergies, which could impair our results of operations. 11 Our future acquisitions may be unprofitable. We intend to acquire additional properties to the extent that we manage to acquire them on advantageous terms and conditions and they meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: · our estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate; · properties we acquire may fail to achieve, within the time frames we project, the occupancy or rental rates we expect to achieve at the time we make the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; · our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and · our investigation of a property or building prior to its acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. If we acquire a business, we will be required to merge and integrate the operations, personnel, accounting and information systems of such acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. Properties acquired by us may subject us to unknown liabilities. Properties that we acquire may be subject to unknown liabilities and we would have no recourse, or only limited recourse to the former owners of the properties. Thus, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of an acquired property, we might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow. Unknown liabilities relating to acquired properties could include: · liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; · law reforms and governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes); and · liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations. A substantial part of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): · delay lease commencements; · decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; · fail to make rental payments when due; or · close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition we cannot assure you that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms or at all. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations. It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly and transfer restrictions may apply to part of our portfolio of properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and this tends to limit our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in the economy or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in income from an investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our business would be adversely affected. Further, if it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of our mortgaged properties, we may not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect our business. Some of the land we have purchased is not zoned for development purposes, and we may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining, the necessary zoning permits and other authorizations. We own several plots of land which are not zoned for the type of projects we intend to develop. In addition, we do not yet have the required land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations for these properties. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our attempts to rezone land and to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations, or that rezoning efforts and permit requests will not be unreasonably delayed or rejected. Moreover, we may be affected by building moratorium and anti-growth legislation. If we are unable to obtain all of the governmental permits and authorizations we need to develop our present and future projects as planned, we may be forced to make unwanted modifications to such projects or abandon them altogether. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional financing. We must maintain liquidity to fund our working capital, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. Our growth strategy is focused on the development and redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition and development of additional properties. As a result, we are likely to depend to an important degree on the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital markets depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, our financial condition, our credit rating and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on these factors, we could experience delays or difficulties in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms or at all. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since the last credit crisis. If our current resources do not satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and 12 market conditions, the availability of credit and our credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the prospects of our company or the industry generally. We may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Serious illnesses and pandemics, such as the 2009 outbreak of Influenza A H1N1 virus (the “Swine Flu”), have in the past adversely affected consumer and tourist activity, may do so in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the outbreak of Swine Flu during the winter of 2009, consumers and tourists dramatically changed their spending and travel habits to avoid contact with crowds. Furthermore, several governments enacted regulations limiting the operation of schools, cinemas and shopping centers. Even though the Argentine government only issued public service recommendations to the population regarding the risks involved in visiting crowded places, such as shopping centers, and did not issue specific regulations limiting access to public places, a significant number of consumers nonetheless changed their habits vis-a-vis shopping centers and malls. We cannot assure you that a new disease outbreak or health hazard (such as the Ebola outbreak in recent years) will not occur in the future, or that such an outbreak or health hazard would not significantly affect consumer and/or tourist activity, and that such scenario would not adversely affect our businesses. Adverse incidents that occur in our shopping centers may result in damage to our image and a decrease in the number of customers. Given that shopping centers are open to the public, with ample circulation of people, accidents, theft, robbery and other incidents may occur in our facilities, regardless of the preventative measures we adopt. In the event such an incident or series of incidents occurs, shopping center customers and visitors may choose to visit other shopping venues that they believe are safer and less violent, which may cause a reduction in the sales volume and operating income of our shopping centers. Argentine Law governing leases imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility. Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: · a prohibition to include automatic price adjustment clauses based on inflation increases in lease agreements; and · the imposition of a two-year minimum lease term for all purposes, except in particular cases such as embassy, consulate or international organization venues, room with furniture for touristic purposes for less than three months, custody and bailment of goods, exhibition or offering of goods in fairs or in cases where due to the circumstances, the subject matter of the lease agreement requires a shorter term. As a result of the foregoing, we are exposed to the risk of increases of inflation under our leases, and the exercise of rescission rights by our tenants could materially and adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that our tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future or if economic conditions deteriorate. In addition, on October 1, 2014, by means of the Law N° 26,994, the Argentine Congress sanctioned a new Civil and Commercial Code (the “Civil and Commercial Code”) which although wasn’t effective as of June 30, 2015, is in force since August 1, 2015, and is currently applicable to our leases. The Civil and Commercial Code derogates Law N° 23,091 on Urban Leases, which amends certain important matters in the current law in connection with leases, such as including a minimum term of two years, and a maximum term of twenty years for residential leases and of fifty years for other purpose leases. Furthermore, the Civil and Commercial Code modifies the regime applicable to contractual provisions relating to foreign currency payment obligations by establishing that foreign currency payment obligations may be discharged in Pesos. This amends the legal framework currently in force, pursuant to which debtors may only discharge their foreign currency payment obligations by making payment in the specific foreign currency agreed upon in their agreements; provided however that the option to discharge in Pesos a foreign currency obligation may be waived by the debtor is still under discussion. Although certain judicial decisions have set forth that this regulation regarding foreign currency can be left aside by the parties to an agreement, it is still too early to determine whether or not this legal provision can be left aside in an agreement as a general rule. Moreover, and regarding the new provisions for leases, there are no judicial decisions on the scope of this amendment and, in particular, in connection with the ability of the parties to any contract to set aside the new provision and enforce such agreements before an Argentine court. We may be liable for some defects in our buildings. According to the former Argentine Civil Code, the builder of a real estate development was liable in case of property damage – meaning the damages compromises the structure and/or the defects render the building no longer useful – for a period of 10 years since the possession of the property; on the other hand, the builder was liable for the latent defects, even when those defects did not imply significant property damage. In addition, according to the former Argentine Civil Code, such liability was extended to the technical project manager and the designer of any given project. Furthermore, in certain cases, such as when consumer law was involved, the liability could be extended to the developer. The Civil and Commercial Code, which became effective on August 1, 2015, has similar provisions to those included in the former Argentine Civil Code and expressly extends the liability for such damage to real estate developers (i.e., any person who sells real estate built by either themselves or by a third party contractor), and any other person involved in the project, in addition to the liability of the builder, the technical project manager and the designer of any given project. According to the Civil and Commercial Code, the warranty period for latent defects expires after three years of the client taking possession of the real estate, and both the builder and the seller are liable for such defects. In our real estate developments we usually act as developers and sellers and we build through third-party contractors. Absent a specific claim, we cannot quantify the potential cost of any obligation that may arise as a result of a future claim, and we have not recorded provisions associated with them in our financial statements. If we were required to remedy any defects on completed works, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming. Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special proceeding to evict tenants, eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time-consuming. Historically, the heavy workloads of the courts and the numerous procedural steps required have generally delayed landlords’ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally take between six months and two years from the date of filing of the suit to the time of actual eviction. We have usually attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants after the first few months of non-payment in order to avoid legal proceedings. Delinquency may increase significantly in the future, and such negotiations with tenants may not be as successful as they have been in the past. Moreover, new Argentine laws and regulations may forbid or restrict eviction, and in each such case they would likely have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to risks inherent to the operation of office buildings that may affect our profitability. Office buildings are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability, including: · a decrease in demand for office space; · a deterioration in the financial condition of our tenants may result in defaults under leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity or for other reasons; · difficulties or delays renewing leases or re-leasing space; · decreases in rents as a result of oversupply, particularly of newer buildings; · competition from developers, owners and operators of office properties and other commercial real estate, including sublease space available from our tenants; and · maintenance, repair and renovation costs incurred to maintain the competitiveness of our office buildings. 13 Our investment in property development and management activities may be less profitable than we anticipate. We are engaged in the development and management of shopping centers, office buildings and other rental properties, frequently through third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development and management activities include the following, among others: · abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; · construction costs of a project may exceed our original estimates for reasons including raises in interest rates or increases in the costs of materials and labor, making a project unprofitable; · occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; · pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; · the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; · sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; · construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; · impossibility to obtain or delays in obtaining necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or building moratoria and anti-growth legislation; · significant time lags between the commencement and completion of projects subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy; · construction may not be completed on schedule because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or floods), resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; · general changes in our tenants’ demand for rental properties; and · we may incur capital expenditures that could result in considerable time consuming efforts and which may never be completed due to government restrictions. In addition, we may face contractors’ claims for the enforcement of labor laws in Argentina (sections 30, 31, 32 under Law N° 20,744), which provide for joint and several liability. Many companies in Argentina hire personnel from third-party companies that provide outsourced services, and sign indemnity agreements in the event of labor claims from employees of such third company that may affect the liability of such hiring company. However, in recent years several courts have denied the existence of independence in those labor relationships and declared joint and several liabilities for both companies. While our policies with respect to expansion, renovation and development activities are intended to limit some of the risks otherwise associated with such activities, we are nevertheless subject to risks associated with the construction of properties, such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm our operating results. We are subject to great competitive pressure. Our real estate activities (in particular due to the acquisition of the office buildings in December 2014) are highly concentrated in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area, where the real estate market is highly competitive due to a scarcity of properties in sought-after locations and the increasing number of local and international competitors. Furthermore, the Argentine real estate industry is generally highly competitive and fragmented and does not have high barriers to entry restricting new competitors from entering the market. The main competitive factors in the real estate development business include availability and location of land, price, funding, design, quality, reputation and partnerships with developers. A number of residential and commercial developers and real estate services companies compete with us in seeking land for acquisition, financial resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Other companies, including joint ventures of foreign and local companies, have become increasingly active in the real estate business and shopping center business in Argentina, further increasing this competition. To the extent that one or more of our competitors are able to acquire and develop desirable properties, as a result of greater financial resources or otherwise, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to respond to such pressures as promptly as our competitors, or the level of competition increases, our financial condition and results of our operations could be adversely affected. All of our shopping center properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of our properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease retail space in our shopping centers or sell units in our residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that we are able to charge. We cannot assure you that other shopping center operators, including international shopping center operators, will not invest in Argentina in the near future. If additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Substantially all of our offices and other non-shopping center rental properties are located in developed urban areas. There are many office buildings, shopping malls, retail and residential premises in the areas where our properties are located. This is a highly fragmented market, and the abundance of comparable properties in our vicinity may adversely affect our ability to rent or sell office space and other real estate and may affect the sale and lease price of our premises. In the future, both national and foreign companies may participate in Argentina’s real estate development market, competing with us for business opportunities. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance and certain kinds of insurance coverage may become prohibitively expensive. We currently carry insurance policies that cover potential risks such as civil liability, fire, loss profit, floods, including extended coverage and losses from leases on all of our properties. Although we believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are generally customary, there are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, terrorism and acts of war that generally are not insured under the insurance policies offered in the national market. Should an insured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. If any of our key employees 14 were to die or become incapacitated, we could experience losses caused by a disruption in our operations which will not be covered by insurance, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. Demand for our premium properties may not be sufficient. We have focused on development projects to cater affluent individuals and have entered into property barter agreements pursuant to which we contribute our undeveloped properties to ventures with developers who will deliver us units in premium locations. At the time the developers return these properties to us, demand for premium residential units could be significantly lower. In such case, we would be unable to sell these residential units at the estimated prices or time frame, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our level of debt may adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay our debt as it becomes due. We had, and expect to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance our business. As of June 30, 2015, our consolidated financial debt amounted to Ps. 4,983.8 million (including accrued and unpaid interest and deferred financing costs). We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flows and adequate financial capacity in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the recent disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the future. In such conditions, access to equity and debt financing options may be restricted and it may be uncertain how long these economic circumstances may last. This would require us to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our leverage could also affect our competitiveness and limit our ability to changes in market conditions, changes in the real estate industry and economic downturns. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt service requirements (including the notes) or to obtain future financing. If we cannot satisfy our debt service requirements or if we default on any financial or other covenants in our debt arrangements, the lenders and/or holders of our debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. Our ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon our future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond our control such as macroeconomic conditions and regulatory changes in Argentina. If we cannot obtain future financing, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows and repay our obligations. The recurrence of a credit crisis could have a negative impact on our major customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The international credit crisis in 2009 had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of a crisis on our major tenants cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption in the ability of our significant tenants to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction their future orders of their products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. 15 We are subject to risks affecting the hotel industry. The full-service segment of the lodging industry in which our hotels operate is highly competitive. The operational success of our hotels is highly dependent on our ability to compete in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations, rates, quality food and beverage facilities and other services and amenities. Our hotels may face additional competition if other companies decide to build new hotels or improve their existing hotels to increase their attractiveness. In addition, the profitability of our hotels depends on: · our ability to form successful relationships with international and local operators to run our hotels; · changes in tourism and travel trends, including seasonal changes and changes due to pandemic outbreaks, such as the A H1N1 virus, a potential ebola outbreak, among others, or weather phenomena’s or other natural events, such as the eruption of the Puyehué and the Calbuco volcano in June 2011 and April 2015, respectively; · affluence of tourists, which can be affected by a slowdown in global economy; and · taxes and governmental regulations affecting wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures and costs. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. In addition, we cannot assure the holders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers. In recent years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and additional regulations may be imposed in the future. Our activities are subject to federal, state and municipal laws, and to regulations, authorizations and licenses required with respect to construction, zoning, use of the soil, environmental protection and historical patrimony, consumer protection, antitrust and other requirements, all of which affect our ability to acquire land, buildings and shopping centers, develop and build projects and negotiate with customers. In addition, companies in this industry are subject to increasing tax rates, the creation of new taxes and changes in the taxation regime. We are required to obtain licenses and authorizations with different governmental authorities in order to carry out our projects. Maintaining our licenses and authorizations can be a costly provision. In the case of non-compliance with such laws, regulations, licenses and authorizations, we may face fines, project shutdowns, and cancellation of licenses and revocation of authorizations. In addition, public authorities may issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or construe existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may force us to make expenditures to comply with such new rules. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to potential delays in obtaining or an inability to obtain all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any such delays or failures to obtain such government approvals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the past, the Argentine government imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficulties in accessing credit. Such regulations limited or prohibited increases on rental prices and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. Most of our leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leased areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting our rental income. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership, operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market and the rental market and materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. Our assets are highly concentrated in certain geographic areas and an economic downturn in such areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, 70.9% of our sales from leases and services were derived from shopping centers in the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires. In addition, all of our office buildings are located in the City of Buenos Aires and a substantial portion of our revenues are now derived from such properties. Although we own properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside of the City of Buenos Aires and the Greater Buenos Aires, we expect to continue to depend to a very large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations We face risks associated with the expansion to other Latin American markets. From 1994 to 2002, we had substantial investments outside Argentina, including Brazil Realty, which was sold in 2002, and Fondo de Valores Inmobiliarios in Venezuela, which was sold in 2001. We continue to believe that Brazil, Uruguay and other Latin American countries offer attractive growth opportunities in the real estate sector. We will continue to consider investment opportunities outside of Argentina as they arise. 16 Investments in Brazil and other Latin American countries are subject to significant risks including sovereign risks and risks affecting these countries’ real estate sectors. These risks include competition by well-established as well as new developers, unavailability of financing or financing on terms that are not acceptable to us, exchange rate fluctuations, lack of liquidity in the market, rising construction costs and inflation, extensive and potentially increasing regulation and bureaucratic procedures for obtaining permits and authorizations, political and economic instability that may result in sharp shifts in demand for properties, risks of default in payment and difficulty evicting defaulting tenants. We face risks associated with our expansion in the United States. On July 2, 2008, we acquired 30% interest in Metropolitan 885 LLC (“Metropolitan”), a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware, United States of America. During fiscal year 2011, an agreement was reached to restructure Metropolitan’s debt; after the consummation of the aforementioned restructuring, we indirectly hold 49% of New Lipstick LLC (“New Lipstick”), a holding company which is the owner of Metropolitan. Metropolitan’s main asset is the Lipstick Building, a 34-story building located at 885 Third Avenue between 53 and 54 streets in Manhattan, New York. Metropolitan has incurred in a secured loan in connection with the Lipstick Building. For more information, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” In March 2012, through our subsidiary Real Estate Strategies, L.P. (“RES”), we acquired 3,000,000 Series C convertible preferred shares issued by Condor in an aggregate amount of US$ 30,000,000, a REIT focused in middle-class and long-stay hotels in 20 states in the United States of America. During 2008 and 2009, the U.S. markets experienced extreme dislocations and a severe contraction in available liquidity globally as important segments of the credit markets were frozen. Global financial markets have been disrupted by, among other things, volatility in securities prices, rating downgrades and declining valuations. This disruption lead to a decline in business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment and precipitated an economic recession throughout the globe. As a consequence, owners and operators of commercial real estate, including hotels and resorts, and commercial real estate properties such as offices, experienced dramatic declines in property values. We are unable to predict if disruptions in the global financial markets will occur in the future and the impact that may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face risks associated with our investment in Israel. IDBD is one of the largest business conglomerates of Israel. Particularly, due to the limited size of the Israeli market and due to the high level of governmental regulation, IDBD and its subsidiaries may be limited to expand its business in the future, to form joint ventures and/or strategic alliances, or be obliged to sell, transfer or dispose any of its assets or business segments. Furthermore, changes in the market prices of securities issued by IDBD and its subsidiaries can affect, directly or indirectly, their results of operations, the shareholders' equity, and/or the enterprise value, the ability to approve and/or distribute dividends, and the availability of credit, among other things. IDBD is indirectly exposed due to its main investments, to changes in the prices of, raw materials, securities, and other economic indices, which may have a material impact on the results of operations of IDBD and its subsidiaries. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that IDBD currently anticipates and, as a result, we may need to adjust our provisions. We cannot assure you that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of its clients. If IDBD is unable to meet its contractual obligations, it may experience delays in the collection of or be unable to collect its client balances, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. As a consequence of the aforementioned and due to the high level of governmental regulation in Israel, the value of our investment in IDBD could be severely affected and therefore would likely have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently facing litigation in connection with our investment in IDBD. On October 20, 2015, the Tel Aviv-Jaffo Court admitted the motion filed by the Arrangement Trustees of IDBH under the Arrangement and determined that any IDBD shares held by any entity controlled by Eduardo Sergio Elsztain and/or transferred by them to third parties shall be prevented from participating as offerees in the Tender Offers as set forth in the Arrangement, with the reservation that this will not apply to IDBD shares which were purchased from minority shareholders on the stock exchange and are in the possession of IFISA. Dolphin filed an appeal before the Supreme Court of Justice of Israel on the Tel Aviv-Jaffo Court's Decision. There can be no assurances of the final outcome of this litigation if the Supreme Court does not reverse the judgements and remove our ban from participating in the Tender Offers with our indirect shareholdings, and as a consequence the value of our investment in IDBD could be severely affected and therefore would likely have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conditions in Israel may limit the ability of IDBD to develop and sell products, which could result in a decrease of revenues. IDBD´s corporate headquarters and a substantial business are located in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel could directly affect IDBD´s operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel, a number of armed conflicts, hostilities and terrorist attacks have taken place in Israel and adjacent areas, which in turn could adversely affect IDBD and its results of operations. The disruption of trade between Israel and its main commercial partners, could affect the economic and financial condition of Israel, which could adversely affect the results of operations of IDBD and its subsidiaries. The rights and responsibilities of IDBD´s shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. IDBD is incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and duties of holders of IDBD’s common shares are governed by IDBD´s articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and duties may differ in some respects from the usual for U.S. corporations. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and actions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ general meeting’s approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness towards the company. Our inability to provide audited financial statements for IDBD in accordance with Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X may cause us to be unable to complete a registered offering, which would materially adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets, may cause certain of our shareholders to be unable to rely on Rule 144 for sales of our securities and may ultimately result in the delisting of our GDSs from the NYSE. We have been unable to obtain financial statements for IDBD for the year ended December 31, 2014 audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAS”) that may be required to be included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F by Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-09”). As of June 30, 2015, we held 49% of IDBD and, as such, we did not control IDBD and did not have the power to direct IDBD or its management to provide us with such audited consolidated financial statements. In reliance on Rule 12b-21 promulgated under the Exchange Act we have provided unaudited consolidated financial statements for IDBD for the year ended December 31, 2014, which do not comply with Rule 3-09. As a result of including such financial information, we do not believe that the omission of the audited financial statements in accordance with Rule 3-09 will have a material impact on a reader’s understanding of our financial condition or our results of operations. We are in the process of requesting a waiver from the SEC for filing the audited consolidated financial statements of IDBD for the year ended December 31, 2014 as may be required by Rule 3-09. We cannot provide you with any assurances that we will obtain this waiver. If the SEC does not grant this waiver to us, we will have to file an amendment to this annual report including the financial statements of IDBD for the year ended December 31, 2014 audited in accordance with U.S. GAAS as soon as such financial statements become available. If this annual report on Form 20-F is considered materially deficient due to the lack of financial statements of IDBD for the year ended December 31, 2014 audited in accordance with U.S. GAAS, we may no longer be considered current in our Exchange Act reporting requirements until the time we file such amendment and we may no longer be considered timely in our Exchange Act reporting requirements. As a result, we would become ineligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form F-3 for 12 months. In addition, the SEC may not declare effective any registration statement that we file in connection with an offering that requires the financial statements under Rule 3-09 to be included. If, as a result, we are unable to complete a registered offering, our ability to access the public capital markets would be materially adversely affected. Any resulting inability to complete a registered offering may materially adversely impact our business, liquidity position, growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Rule 144 safe harbor for the sale of our securities may be unavailable for a certain period of time, which may make it harder to effect such sales. Finally, our GDSs may ultimately be delisted from the NYSE. If the bankruptcy of Inversora Dársena Norte S.A. is extended to our subsidiary Puerto Retiro, we will likely lose a significant investment in a unique waterfront land reserve in the City of Buenos Aires. On April 18, 2000, Puerto Retiro S.A. ("Puerto Retiro") was served notice of a filing made by the Argentine Government, through the Ministry of Defense, seeking to extend bankruptcy of Inversora Dársena Norte S.A. ("Indarsa") to the Company. Upon filing of the complaint, the bankruptcy court issued an order restraining the ability of Puerto Retiro to dispose of, in any manner, the real property purchased in 1993 from Tandanor. Indarsa had acquired 90% of the capital stock in Tandanor from the Argentine Government in 1991. Tandanor’s main business involved ship repairs performed in a 19-hectare property located in the vicinity of La Boca neighborhood and where the Syncrolift is installed. As Indarsa failed to comply with its payment obligation for acquisition of the shares of stock in Tandanor, the Ministry of Defense filed a bankruptcy petition against Indarsa, seeking to extend it to the Company. The evidentiary stage of the legal proceedings has already concluded. The Company lodged an appeal from the injunction order, and such order was confirmed by the Court of Appeals on December 14, 2000. The parties filed the arguments in due time and proper manner. After the case was set for judgment, the judge ordered the suspension of the judicial order requesting the case records for issuance of a decision based on the alleged existence of pre-judgmental status in relation to the criminal case against former officials of the Ministry of Defense and former directors of the Company, for which reason the case will not be adjudicated until a final judgment is entered in respect of the criminal case. It has been made known to the commercial court that the expiration of the limitation period has been declared in the criminal action and the criminal defendants have been acquitted. However, this decision was reversed by the Criminal Court of Cassation (Cámara de Casación Penal). An extraordinary appeal was filed and rejected, therefore an appeal was directly lodged with the Argentine Supreme Court for improper refusal to permit the appeal, and a decision is still pending. The Management and the legal counsel to the Company believe that there are sufficient legal and technical arguments to consider that the petition for an extension of the bankruptcy will be dismissed by the court. However, in view of the particular features and progress of the case, this position cannot be held to be conclusive. 17 In turn, Tandanor filed a civil action against Puerto Retiro and the other defendants in the criminal case for violation of Section 174 (5) based on Section 173 (7) of the Criminal Code. Such action seeks -on the basis of the nullity of the decree that approved the bidding process involving the Dársena Norte property- a reimbursement in favor of Tandanor for all such amounts it has allegedly lost as a result of a suspected fraudulent transaction involving the sale of the property disputed in the case. In July 2013 the answer to the civil action was filed, which contained a number of defenses. Tandanor requested the intervention of the Argentine Government as third party co-litigant in this case, which petition was granted by the Court. In March 2015 both the Argentine Government and the criminal complainant answered the asserted defenses. As of the date hereof no resolution has been issued in such regard. We can not assure you that this Company may succeed in this case. Property ownership through joint ventures or minority participation may limit our ability to act exclusively in our interest. We develop and acquire properties through joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. For example, we currently own 80% of Panamerican Mall S.A. (“PAMSA”), while another 20% is owned by Centro Comercial Panamericano S.A., and 50% of Quality Invest S.A. (“Quality Invest”). We could engage in a dispute with one or more of our joint venture partners that might affect our ability to operate a jointly-owned property. Moreover, our joint venture partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives that relate to the timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties. In some instances, our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. If the objectives of our joint venture partners are inconsistent with our own objectives, we will not be able to act exclusively in our interests. If one or more of the investors in any of our jointly owned properties were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, there could be an adverse effect on the relevant property or properties and in turn, on our financial performance. Should a joint venture partner declare bankruptcy, we could be liable for our partner’s common share of joint venture liabilities. Dividend restrictions in our subsidiaries’ debt agreements may adversely affect it. We have subsidiaries and an important source of funds for are cash dividends and other permitted payments from its subsidiaries. The debt agreements of our subsidiaries contain covenants restricting their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions. If our subsidiaries are unable to make payments to us, or are able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to make payments on its indebtedness. We are dependent on our Board of Directors. Our success, to a significant extent, depends on the continued employment of Eduardo Sergio Elsztain and certain other members of our board of directors and senior management, who have significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. The loss or interruption in their services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. We may face potential conflicts of interest relating to our principal shareholders. Our largest beneficial owner is Mr. Eduardo S. Elsztain, through his indirect shareholding through Cresud S.A.C.I.F.y A. (“Cresud”). As of June 30, 2015, such beneficial ownership consisted of: (i) 372,112,411 common shares held by Cresud, and (ii) 900 common shares held directly by Mr. Elsztain. Conflicts of interest between our management, Cresud and our affiliates may arise in the performance of our business activities. As of June 30, 2015, Mr. Elsztain also beneficially owned (i) approximately 37.4% of Cresud’s common shares and (ii) approximately 95.8% of the common shares of our subsidiary IRSA Commercial Properties. We cannot assure you that our principal shareholders and their affiliates will not limit or cause us to forego business opportunities that our affiliates may pursue or that the pursuit of other opportunities will be in our interest. Due to the currency mismatches between our assets and liabilities, we have currency exposure. As of June 30, 2015, the majority of our liabilities, such as our Series I and Series II Notes are denominated in U.S. Dollars while our revenues are denominated in Pesos. This currency gap exposes us to a risk of exchange rate volatility, which would negatively affect our financial results if the Dollar were to appreciate against the Peso. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operation and financial condition and may increase the collection risk of our leases and other receivables from our tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in our shopping centers. In recent years, retail sales by means of the Internet have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. We believe that our target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods, and this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as our shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. 18 Risks Related to our Investment in Banco Hipotecario As of June 30, 2015, we owned approximately 29.99% of the outstanding capital stock of Banco Hipotecario S.A. (“Banco Hipotecario”), which represented 14.08% of our consolidated assets as of such date. All of Banco Hipotecario’s operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, the quality of Banco Hipotecario’ s loan portfolio, financial condition and results of operations depend on economic, regulatory and political conditions prevailing in Argentina. These conditions include growth rates, inflation rates, exchange rates, changes to interest rates, changes to government policies, social instability and other political, economic or international developments either taking place in, or otherwise affecting, Argentina. Risks Relating to the Argentine Financial System The short-term structure of the deposit base of the Argentine financial system, including Banco Hipotecario, could lead to a reduction in liquidity levels and limit the long-term expansion of financial intermediation. After the Argentine crisis, the volume of financial activity regarding deposits and loans was severely reduced. Between 2003 and 2007, a gradual and increasing recovery of deposits levels took place. But because of the global financial crisis, these levels were reduced during 2008 only to be further improved during the last half of 2009, until the present date. The Argentine financial system growth strongly depends on deposits levels, due to the small size of its capital markets and the absence of foreign financings during recent years. In the medium term, the growth of credit could depend on the growth of the deposits levels. During 2011-2013 credit was able to grow at a higher rate than deposits, by consuming liquidity excess of financial institutions. Notwithstanding that, in 2014, this scenario started to change, and reasonable deposits started to grow at a faster rate that credits. The liquidity of the Argentine financial system is currently reasonable, due to the high level of mandatory deposits reserves of Argentine financial entities, among other short-term investments, which represent 43% of total deposits. Notwithstanding that, because most deposits are short term, a substantial part of the credits are also short-term maturity, and there are a small proportion of long term credit lines, such as mortgages. Moreover, the restrictions on the purchase of foreign currency naturally reduce the volatility of local currency deposits. Although liquidity levels are currently reasonable, no assurance can be given that these levels will not be reduced due to a future negative economic scenario. Therefore, there is still a risk of low liquidity levels that could increase funding cost in the event of a withdrawal of a significant amount of the deposit base of the financial system, and limit the long-term expansion of financial intermediation including Banco Hipotecario. Future governmental measures may adversely affect the economy and the operations of financial institutions. The Argentine government has historically exercised significant influence over the economy, and financial institutions, in particular, have operated in a highly regulated environment. We cannot assure that the laws and regulations currently governing the economy or the banking sector will remain unaltered in the future. We cannot assure you that changes will not adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’ s business, financial condition or results of operations and Banco Hipotecario’ s ability to honor its debt obligations in foreign currency. As of the date of this annual report, there are three legislative bills to amend the Financial Institutions Law which have been sent to the Argentine Congress seeking to modify different aspects of the Financial Institutions Law. If the law currently in force were to be comprehensively modified, the financial system as a whole could be substantially and adversely affected. If any of these legislative bills were to be enacted or if the Financial Institutions Law were amended in any other way, there is no prediction on the impact of the subsequent amendments to the regulations on the financial institutions in general, Banco Hipotecario’ s business, its financial condition and the results of operations. Law N° 26,739 was enacted to amend the Central Bank’s charter, the principal aspects of which are: (i) to broaden the scope of the Central Bank’s mission (by establishing that such institution shall be responsible for financial stability and economic development while pursuing social equity); (ii) to change the obligation to maintain an equivalent ratio between the monetary base and the amount of international reserves; (iii) to establish that the board of directors of the institution will be the authority responsible for determining the level of reserves required to guarantee normal operation of the foreign exchange market based on changes in external accounts; and (iv) to empower the monetary authority to regulate and provide guidance on credit through the financial system institutions, so as to “promote long-term production investment”. In addition, the Civil and Commercial Code, among other things, modifies the applicable regime for contractual provisions relating to foreign currency payment obligations by establishing that foreign currency payment obligations may be discharged in Pesos. This amends the legal framework, pursuant to which debtors may only discharge their foreign currency payment obligations by making payment in the specific foreign currency agreed upon in their agreements; provided however that the option to discharge in Pesos a foreign currency obligation may be waived by the debtor is still under discussion. We are not able to ensure that any current or future laws and regulations (including, in particular, the amendment to the Financial Institutions Law and the amendment to the Central Bank’s charter) will not result in significant costs to us, or will otherwise have an adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’ s operations. The stability of the financial system depends upon the ability of financial institutions, including ours, to maintain and increase the confidence of depositors. The measures implemented by the Argentine government in late 2001 and early 2002, in particular the restrictions imposed on depositors to withdraw money freely from banks and the “pesification” and restructuring of their deposits, were strongly opposed by depositors due to the losses on their savings and undermined their confidence in the Argentine financial system and in all financial institutions operating in Argentina. If depositors once again withdraw their money from banks in the future, there may be a substantial negative impact on the manner in which financial institutions, including ours, conduct their business, and on their ability to operate as financial intermediaries. Loss of confidence in the international financial markets may also adversely affect the confidence of Argentine depositors in local banks. In the future, an adverse economic situation, even if it is not related to the financial system, could trigger a massive withdrawal of capital from local banks by depositors, as an alternative to protect their assets from potential crises. Any massive withdrawal of deposits could cause liquidity issues in the financial sector and, consequently, a contraction in credit supply. The occurrence of any of the above could have a material and adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’ s expenses and business, results of operations and financial condition. The asset quality of financial institutions is exposed to the non-financial public sector’s and Central Bank’s indebtedness. Financial institutions carry significant portfolios of bonds issued by the Argentine government and by provincial governments as well as loans granted to these governments. The exposure of the financial system to the non-financial public sector’s indebtedness had been shrinking steadily, from 48.9% of total assets in 2002 to 9.1% in 2014. To an extent, the value of the assets held by Argentine banks, as well as their capacity to generate income, is dependent on the creditworthiness of the non-financial public sector, which is in turn tied to the Government’s ability to foster sustainable long-term growth, generate fiscal revenues and cut back on public expenditure. In addition, financial institutions currently carry securities issued by the Central Bank in their portfolios, which generally are short-term; such securities issued by the Central Bank represents approximately 19.5% of the total assets of the Argentine financial system. As of June 30, 2015, Banco Hipotecario’ s total 19 exposure to the public sector was Ps.2,286.4 million, which represented 7.6% of its assets as of that date, and the total exposure to securities issued by the Central Bank was Ps. 2,422.2 million, which represented 7.3% of its total assets as of June 30, 2015. The Consumer Protection Law may limit some of the rights afforded to Banco Hipotecario. Argentine Law N° 24,240 (the “Consumer Protection Law”) sets forth a series of rules and principles designed to protect consumers, which include Banco Hipotecario’ s customers. The Consumer Protection Law was amended by Law N° 26,361 on March 12, 2008 to expand its applicability and the penalties associated with violations thereof. Additionally, Law N° 25,065 (as amended by Law N° 26,010 and Law N° 26,361, the “Credit Card Law”) also sets forth public policy regulations designed to protect credit card holders. In addition, the Civil and Commercial Code has a chapter on consumer protection, stressing that the rules governing consumer relations should be applied and interpreted in accordance with the principle of consumer protection and that a consumer contract should be interpreted in the sense most favorable to it. The application of both the Consumer Protection Law and the Credit Card Law by administrative authorities and courts at the federal, provincial and municipal levels has increased. This trend has increased general consumer protection levels. In the event that Banco Hipotecario is found to be liable for violations of any of the provisions of the Consumer Protection Law or the Credit Card Law, the potential penalties could limit some of Banco Hipotecario’ s rights, for example, with respect to its ability to collect payments due from services and financing provided by us, and adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’ s financial results of operations. We cannot assure you that court and administrative rulings based on the newly-enacted regulation or measures adopted by the enforcement authorities will not increase the degree of protection given to Banco Hipotecario’ s debtors and other customers in the future, or that they will not favor the claims brought by consumer groups or associations. This may prevent or hinder the collection of payments resulting from services rendered and financing granted by us, which may have an adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’ s business and results of operations. Class actions against financial institutions for unliquidated amounts may adversely affect the financial system’s profitability. Certain public and private organizations have initiated class actions against financial institutions in Argentina. The National Constitution and the Consumer Protection Law contain certain provisions regarding class actions. However, their guidance with respect to procedural rules for instituting and trying class action cases is limited. Nonetheless, through an ad hoc doctrine, Argentine courts have admitted class actions in some cases, including various lawsuits against financial entities related to “collective interests” such as alleged overcharging on products, interest rates and advice in the sale of public securities, etc. If class action plaintiffs were to prevail against financial institutions, their success could have an adverse effect on the financial industry in general and indirectly on Banco Hipotecario’ s business. Banco Hipotecario operates in a highly regulated environment, and its operations are subject to regulations adopted, and measures taken, by several regulatory agencies. Financial institutions are subject to a major number of regulations concerning functions historically determined by the Central Bank and other regulatory authorities. The Central Bank may penalize Banco Hipotecario and its directors, members of the Executive Committee, and members of its Supervisory Committee, in the event of any breach the applicable regulation. Potential sanctions, for any breach on the applicable regulations may vary from administrative and/or disciplinary penalties to criminal sanctions. Similarly, the CNV, which authorizes securities offerings and regulates the capital markets in Argentina, has the authority to impose sanctions on us and Banco Hipotecario’ s Board of Directors for breaches of corporate governance established in the capital markets laws and CNV Rules. The Financial Information Unit (Unidad de Información Financiera, or “UIF”) regulates matters relating to the prevention of asset laundering and has the ability to monitor compliance with any such regulations by financial institutions and, eventually, impose sanctions. We cannot assure you whether such regulatory authorities will commence proceedings against Banco Hipotecario, its shareholders or directors, or its Supervisory Committee, or penalize Banco Hipotecario. This notwithstanding, and in addition to “Know Your Customer” compliance, Banco Hipotecario has implemented other policies and procedures to comply with its duties under currently applicable rules and regulations. In addition to regulations specific to the banking industry, Banco Hipotecario is subject to a wide range of federal, provincial and municipal regulations and supervision generally applicable to businesses operating in Argentina, including laws and regulations pertaining to labor, social security, public health, consumer protection, the environment, competition and price controls. We cannot assure that existing or future legislation and regulation will not require material expenditures by Banco Hipotecario or otherwise have a material adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’ s consolidated operations. Risks Relating to Banco Hipotecario’s Business The quality of Banco Hipotecario’s loan portfolio could be impaired if the Argentine private sector continues to be affected in the event of a decrease in the level of activity. Banco Hipotecario’ s loan portfolio is concentrated on recession-sensitive segments and it is to a large extent dependent upon local and international economic conditions. This in turn might affect the creditworthiness of Banco Hipotecario’s loan portfolio and its results of operations. Increased competition and M&A activities in the banking industry may adversely affect Banco Hipotecario. Banco Hipotecario foresees increased competition in the banking sector. If the trend towards decreasing spreads is not offset by an increase in lending volumes, the ensuing losses could lead to mergers in the industry. These mergers could lead to the establishment of larger, stronger banks with more resources than us. Therefore, although the demand for financial products and services in the market continues to grow, competition may adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’s results of operations, shrinking spreads and commissions. Reduced spreads without corresponding increases in lending volumes could adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’ s profitability. The spread for Argentina’s financial system between the interest rates on loans and deposits could be affected as a result of increased competition in the banking sector and the Argentine government’s tightening of monetary policy in response to inflation concerns. Since 2009, the interest rate spreads throughout the Argentine financial system have generally increased. This increase was sustained by a steady demand for consumer loans in recent years. In 2013 and 2014, borrowing and lending rates increased significantly. However, the net interest margin of the financial system remained stable due to a substantial growth both in the loan and deposit portfolios. In June 2014, the Central Bank established a system of maximum active benchmark rates for consumer loans and secured loans and additionally, in October 2014, established a new mechanism of regulation by setting a minimum deposit rate for certain deposits of natural persons. We cannot guarantee that interest rate spreads will remain stable unless increases in lending or additional cost-cutting takes place. A reversal of this trend, or a new regulation imposing maximum active benchmark rates, could adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’ s profitability. Differences in the accounting standards between Argentina and certain countries with developed capital markets, such as the United States, may make it difficult to compare Banco Hipotecario’ s financial statements and those prepared by companies from these other countries. 20 Publicly available information about Banco Hipotecario in Argentina is presented differently from the information available for registered public companies in certain countries with highly developed capital markets, such as the United States. Except as otherwise described herein, Banco Hipotecario prepares its financial statements in accordance with Central Bank GAAP, which differ in certain significant respects from Argentine GAAP and from U.S. GAAP. The Argentine Government might prevail at Banco Hipotecario’ s General Shareholders’ Meetings. By virtue of Law N° 23,696 (the “Privatization Law”) there are no restrictions on the Argentine Government’s ability to dispose of its Class A shares and all those shares minus one could be sold to third parties through public offering. Banco Hipotecario’ s By-laws set forth that if at any time Class A shares were to represent less than 42% of Banco Hipotecario’ s shares with right to vote, Class D shares automatically lose their triple vote right, which could result in the principal shareholders losing control of Banco Hipotecario. Should any such situation materialize and should the Argentine Government retain a sufficient number of Class A shares, the Argentine Government could prevail in Shareholders’ Meetings (except for some decisions that call for qualified majorities) and could thus exert actual control on the decisions that must be submitted to consideration by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Banco Hipotecario’ s obligations as trustee of the Programa de Crédito Argentino del Bicentenario para la Vivienda Única Familiar (“PROCREAR”) trust are limited. Banco Hipotecario currently acts as trustee of the PROCREAR Trust, which aims to facilitate access to housing solutions by providing mortgage loans for construction and developing housing complexes across Argentina. Under the terms and conditions of the PROCREAR Trust, all the duties and obligations under the trust have to be settled with the trust estate. Notwithstanding, if the aforementioned is not met, Banco Hipotecario could have its reputation affected. In addition, if the Argentine government decides to terminate the PROCREAR Trust and/or terminate Banco Hipotecario’ s role as trustee of the PROCREAR Trust, this may adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’ s results of operations. In the future, Banco Hipotecario may consider new business opportunities, which could turn out to be unsuccessful. In recent years Banco Hipotecario has considered some business acquisitions or combinations and plans to continue considering acquisitions that offer appealing opportunities and that are in line with Banco Hipotecario’ s commercial strategy. However, Banco Hipotecario cannot assure you that such businesses could deliver sustainable outcomes or that it will be able to consummate the acquisition of financial institutions in favorable conditions. Additionally, Banco Hipotecario’ s ability to obtain the desired outcome because of said acquisitions will be partly dependent upon its ability to follow through with the successful integration of the businesses. To integrate any acquired business entails major risks, including unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; problems inherent in assimilating or retaining the target’s employees; challenges associated with keeping the target’s customers; unforeseen liabilities or contingencies associated with the target; and the likelihood of management having to take time and attention out of the business’s day-to-day to focus on the integration activities and the resolution of associated problems. Cybersecurity events could negatively affect Banco Hipotecario’ s reputation, its financial condition and results of operations. Banco Hipotecario has access to large amounts of confidential financial information and control substantial financial assets belonging to the customers as well as to Banco Hipotecario. In addition, Banco Hipotecario provides its customers with continuous remote access to their accounts and the possibility of transferring substantial financial assets by electronic means. Accordingly, cybersecurity is a material risk for Banco Hipotecario. Cybersecurity incidents, such as computer break-ins, phishing, identity theft and other disruptions could negatively affect the security of information stored in and transmitted through Banco Hipotecario ‘s computer systems and network infrastructure and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with Banco Hipotecario. In addition, contingency plans in place may not be sufficient to cover liabilities associated with any such events and, therefore, applicable insurance coverage may be deemed inadequate, preventing Banco Hipotecario from receiving full compensation for the losses sustained because of such a disruption. Although Banco Hipotecario intends to continue to implement security technology devices and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, we cannot assure you that all of Banco Hipotecario’ s systems are entirely free from vulnerability and these security measures will be successful. If any of these events occur, it could damage Banco Hipotecario’ s reputation, entail serious costs and affect Banco Hipotecario’ s transactions, as well as its results of operations and financial condition.+ A disruption or failure in any of Banco Hipotecario’ s information technology systems could adversely affect its business. Banco Hipotecario depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of internet-based data processing, communication and information exchange platforms and networks, including those systems related to the operation of Banco Hipotecario’ s ATM network. Banco Hipotecario’ s operations depend on its ability to manage its information technology systems and communications efficiently and without interruption. Banco Hipotecario’ s communications, systems or transactions could be harmed or disrupted by fire, floods, power failures, defective telecommunications, computer viruses, electronic or physical theft and similar events or disruptions. In addition, Banco Hipotecario’ s information technology systems and operations may suffer if its suppliers do not meet the delivery of products in a timely manner or decide to end the relationship with Banco Hipotecario. Any of the foregoing events may cause disruptions in Banco Hipotecario’ s information technology systems, delays and the loss of critical data, and could prevent Banco Hipotecario from operating at optimal levels. In addition, the contingency plans in place may not be sufficient to cover all those events and, therefore, this may mean that the applicable insurance coverage is limited or inadequate, preventing Banco Hipotecario from receiving full compensation for the losses sustained because of such a disruption. Also, Banco Hipotecario’ s recovery of losses plan may not be enough to prevent damage resulting from all the cases and Banco Hipotecario’ s insurance coverage could be inadequate to cover losses from interruptions. If any of these assumptions occur Banco Hipotecario’ s reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the GDSs and the Common Shares. Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common shares and GDSs. The market prices of our common shares and GDS could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or GDSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The GDSs are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including common shares sold to our affiliates. Cresud, which as of June 30, 2015, owned approximately 64.3% of our common shares (or approximately 372,112,411 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 37,211,241 GDSs), is free to dispose of any or all of its common shares or GDSs at any time in its discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or GDSs would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and GDSs. 21 If we issue additional equity securities in the future, you may suffer dilution, and trading prices for our equity securities may decline. We may issue additional shares of our common stock for financing future acquisitions or new projects or for other general corporate purposes, although there is no present intention to do so. Any such issuance could result in a dilution of your ownership stake and/or the perception of any such issuances could have an adverse impact on the market price of the GDSs. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States There may be less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Market (“Mercado de Valores de Buenos Aires” or “MERVAL”) than is regularly published by or about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. We are exempt from the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting related to the accounting for derivative financial instruments derived from non-routine complex contractual provisions in the context of the acquisition of an associate. Our management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of fiscal year 2014 were not effective given to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness is related to the accounting for derivative financial instruments derived from non-routine complex contractual provisions in the context of the acquisition of an associate. Under this concept, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in the internal control over financial reporting that may reasonably cause that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. See Item 15. Controls and Procedures - A. Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Any failure to implement and/ or maintain improvements in the controls over our financial reporting, or any difficulties encountered in the implementation of such improvements, could result in a material misstatement in our annual or interim financial statements that: (i) may not be prevented or detected; and/or, (ii) may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under the applicable securities laws. This situation may also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and this could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our shares or GDSs. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment. We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and our senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against us or them in United States court judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. There is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. Holders of our common shares or GDSs would suffer negative consequences. Based on the current and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending June 30, 2015, and we do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition or if our projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets and the accuracy of our projections. In addition, this determination is based on the interpretation of certain U.S. Treasury regulations relating to rental income, which regulations are potentially subject to differing interpretation. If we become a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined in “Taxation—United States Taxation) of our common shares or GDSs will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for U.S. Holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our common shares or GDSs at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see ‘‘Taxation—United States Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company” for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Changes in Argentine tax laws may adversely affect the tax treatment of our common shares or GDSs. On September 23, 2013, the Argentine income tax law was amended by the passage of Law N° 26,893. Under the amended law, the distribution of dividends is subject to income tax at a rate of 10%, unless the dividends are distributed to Argentine corporate entities. In addition, the amended law establishes that the sale, exchange or other transfer of shares and other securities is subject to a capital gain tax at a rate of 15% for Argentine resident individuals and foreign beneficiaries. There is an exemption for Argentine resident individuals if certain requirements are met; however, there is no such exemption for non-Argentine residents. See “Item 10.E - Taxation —Argentine Taxation”. However, as of the date hereof many aspects of the amended tax law remain unclear and, pursuant to certain announcements made by Argentine tax authorities, they are subject to further rulemaking and interpretation, which may adversely affect the tax treatment of our common shares and/or GDSs. The income tax treatment of income derived from the sale of GDSs, dividends or exchanges of shares from the GDS facility may not be uniform under the revised Argentine income tax law. The possibly varying treatment of source income could impact both Argentine resident holders as well as non-Argentine resident holders. In addition, should a sale of GDSs be deemed to give rise to Argentine source income, as of the date of this annual report no regulations have been issued regarding the mechanism for paying the Argentine capital gains tax when the sale exclusively involves non-Argentine parties. However, as of the date of this annual report, no administrative or judicial rulings have clarified the ambiguity in the law. Therefore, holders of our common shares, including in the form of GDSs, are encouraged to consult their tax advisors as to the particular Argentine income tax consequences under their specific facts. Holders of our GDSs may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares underlying the GDSs at our shareholders’ meetings. We will not treat the holders of our GDSs as one of our shareholders and the holders of our GDSs will not have shareholder rights. The GDS depositary will be the holder of the common shares underlying your GDSs and GDS holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by the GDSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the GDSs. There are no provisions under Argentine law or under our by-laws that limit the exercise by GDS holders of their voting rights through the GDS depositary with respect to the underlying common shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of GDS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with these holders. For example, holders of our common shares will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings through publication of a notice in an Official Gazette in Argentina, an Argentine newspaper of general circulation and the bulletin of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (“BCBA”), and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either 22 attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. GDS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Instead, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the GDS depositary. If requested by us, the GDS depositary will mail to holders of GDSs the notice of the meeting and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, GDS holders must then instruct the GDS depositary as to voting the common shares represented by their GDSs. Due to these procedural steps involving the GDS depositary, the process for exercising voting rights may take longer for GDS holders than for holders of common shares and common shares represented by GDSs may not be voted as GDS holders desire. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of our common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self—dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares and GDSs at a potential disadvantage. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against our directors or us or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. The majority of our shareholders may determine to not pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, we may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in our Audited Financial Statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by our shareholders at our annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that our shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and economic conditions. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, we may pay dividends in Pesos out of retained earnings, if any, to the extent set forth in our Audited Financial Statements. Our ability to generate retained earnings is subject to the results of our operations. Although during 2014 inflation accelerated mainly due to the currency devaluation process carried out by the Central Bank, we paid dividends on April 15, 2015. The uncertainty surrounding future rates of inflation may affect our results of operations and consequently our ability to pay dividends. If the Peso continues to devaluate significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences on our business and as a result on the results of our operations and our ability to pay dividends. The ability of holders of the GDSs to receive cash dividends may be limited. The ability of GDS holders to receive cash dividends may be limited by the ability of the GDS depositary to convert cash dividends paid in Pesos into U.S. Dollars. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with the GDS depositary for the GDSs, to the extent that the GDS depositary can in its judgment, and in accordance with local exchange regulations, convert Pesos (or any other foreign currency) into U.S. Dollars on a reasonable basis and transfer the resulting U.S. Dollars abroad, the GDS depositary will as promptly as practicable convert or cause to be converted all cash dividends received by it in Pesos on the deposited securities common shares into U.S. Dollars. If in the judgment of the GDS depositary this conversion is not possible on a reasonable basis (or is not permitted by applicable Argentine laws, regulations and approval requirements), the GDS depositary may distribute the foreign currency received by it in Pesos in Argentina or in its discretion hold such currency uninvited for the respective accounts of the owners entitled to receive the same. As a result, if the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the GDS depositary cannot or does not convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. For further information see “Risks Relating to Argentina—Restrictions on transfers of foreign currency and the repatriation of capital from Argentina may impair our ability to pay dividends and distributions.” Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law, by our by-laws and by certain restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, we may pay dividends in Pesos out of retained earnings, if any, to the extent set forth in our audited financial statements. Our ability to generate retained earnings is subject to the results of our operations. During 2014 inflation accelerated mainly due to the devaluation process carried out by the Central Bank. The uncertainty surrounding future inflation may affect our results and as a result our ability to pay dividends. If the Peso continues to devaluate significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences on our business and as a result on the results of our operations and our ability to pay dividends. On February 2, 2007, we issued our fixed-rate notes due 2017 in an aggregate principal amount of US$150.0 million, which accrue interest at an annual interest rate of 8.5% payable semiannually and maturing on February 2, 2017. On July 20, 2010, we issued fixed-rate notes due in 2020 in an aggregate principal amount of US$ 150.0 million, which accrue interest at an annual interest rate of 11.5% payable semiannually and mature on July 20, 2020. These notes contain a covenant limiting our ability to pay dividends which may not exceed the sum of: · 50% of our cumulative consolidated net income; or · 75% of our cumulative consolidated net income if our consolidated interest coverage ratio for our most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters is at least 3.0 to 1; or · 100% of cumulative consolidated net income if our consolidated interest coverage ratio for our most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters is at least 4.0 to 1; or · 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds (with certain exceptions) and the fair market value of property other than cash received by us or by our restricted subsidiaries from (a) any contribution to our capital stock or the capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries or issuance and sale of our qualified capital stock or the qualified capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries subsequent to the issue of our notes due, (b) issuance and sale subsequent to the issuance of our notes due 2017 or our indebtedness or the indebtedness of our restricted subsidiaries that has been converted into or exchanged for our qualified capital stock, or (c) any reduction in our indebtedness or any restricted subsidiary, (d) any reduction in debt investment (other than permitted investments) and return on assets, or (e) any distribution received from non-restricted subsidiaries. · As a result, we cannot assure you that in the future we will pay any dividends in respect of our common shares. 