ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty. The following discussion addresses some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to cause, actual results to differ materially from expectations. We caution all readers to pay particular attention to the descriptions of risks and uncertainties described below and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and we may be forced to consider additional alternatives. This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business and OperationsIf we incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. With the exception of fiscal 2008, we have incurred cumulative operating losses since we started our company in August 1993. The accumulated deficit at June 30, 2009 was $79,566,000. The continued deterioration of general worldwide economic conditions has negatively impacted certain vertical markets, including retail and food distribution, that are significant to our operations. As a result of these general economic conditions, combined with the seasonal impact of the typically slower summer months, our revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 is expected to be in line with the first quarter of fiscal 2009, which was lower than quarterly revenues reported for fiscal 2008. If we incur operating losses and consistently fail to be a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. In addition, we plan to continue to increase spending on research and development, along with sales and marketing, at levels higher than in the recent past and possibly disproportionate to revenue, thus incurring net losses in the near term. Our future profitability depends on our ability to obtain significant customers for our products, to identify, engage and support significant partners to sell our products, to respond to competition, to introduce new and enhanced products and to successfully market and support our products. We cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain significant sales or profitability in the future. If we cannot raise adequate capital in the future, we may be unable to continue our product development, marketing and business, generally. We anticipate investing significant resources to fund future operations, including product development and marketing. The continued deterioration of general worldwide economic conditions has negatively impacted certain vertical markets, including retail and food distribution, that are significant to our operations. As a result of these general economic conditions, combined with the seasonal impact of the typically slower summer months, our revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 is expected to be in line with the first quarter of fiscal 2009, which was lower than quarterly revenues reported for fiscal 2008. As a result, we may need to raise additional capital to fund future operations. Funding in the form of either debt or equity, from any source, may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, particularly in light of the recent tightening of worldwide credit markets. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to limit, delay, scale-back or eliminate product development programs, marketing or other activities. We might be forced to sell or license our technologies. Any of these actions might harm our business. If additional financing is obtained, the financing may be dilutive to our current stockholders. We rely substantially on key customers. Our customer base is highly concentrated. One customer accounted for 16% of our total revenues for the year ended June 30, 2009. We believe that a substantial portion of our net sales will continue to be derived from a concentrated group of customers. However, the volume of sales to a specific customer is likely to vary from period to period, and a significant customer in one period may not purchase our products in a subsequent period. In general, there are no ongoing written commitments by customers to purchase our products. Our net sales in any period generally have been, and likely will continue to be, in the near term, derived from a relatively small number of sales transactions. Therefore, the loss of one or more major customers, or a delay in their orders, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If our VoiceLogistics family of products is not successful in the market, we will not be able to generate substantial revenues or achieve sustained profitability. Our success is substantially dependent on the success of our VoiceLogistics family of products. If the market accepts our Voxware 3 products, these products will account for the vast majority of our net revenue in the future. If our Voxware 3 products are unsatisfactory, or if we are unable to generate significant demand for these products, or if we fail to develop other significant products or applications, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We have a sole source vendor for our primary hardware products. One vendor supplies us with our primary wearable computer hardware products that we resell. Any disruption in supply by this vendor would prohibit us from shipping the products we resell, and we would need to convince the customer to purchase a supported product distributed by another vendor. In addition, other vendors provide custom-made components that would take time to reproduce with other suppliers should a current vendor fail to deliver quality product in a timely manner. Any disruption in or termination of supply by our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 10 - We are relying on third-party hardware manufacturers to develop and bring to market portable voice-compatible computer equipment on which to run our software. Sales of our Voxware 3 and VoxBrowser software products depend, in part, upon the delivery by third-party hardware manufacturers of robust Voxware-certified mobile computing devices with sufficient memory, voice capabilities and form factor. While we anticipate the entrance of additional Voxware-certified devices in the marketplace in the future, our customers seeking best-of-breed hardware units to drive our software currently have a limited selection from which to choose. We cannot assure you that third-party manufacturers will develop and market hardware units compatible with our software on a timely basis, if at all. If we do not develop or acquire and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, our products may be rendered obsolete. The markets for our speech recognition products and voice-based technologies are characterized by rapidly changing technology. The introduction of products by others based on new or more advanced technologies could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Therefore, our ability to build on our existing technologies and products to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a cost effective and timely manner will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and compete. We cannot assure you that we will develop new or enhanced products successfully and bring them to market in a timely manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the market will accept new or enhanced products. Our failure to develop new or enhanced products, including our failure to develop or acquire the technology necessary to do so, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If our competitors introduce better or less expensive products, our products may not be profitable to sell or to continue to develop. The business in which we engage is highly competitive. Advances in technology, product improvements and new product introductions, as well as marketing and distribution capabilities and price competition influence success. Failure to keep pace with product and technological advances could adversely affect our competitive position and prospects for growth. Our products compete with those being offered by larger, traditional computer industry participants who have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against these competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us would not adversely affect our business or operating results. If we cannot integrate our speech recognition products with other components of customer systems, we may not be able to sell our products. Although state-of-the-art speech recognition technology is important to generating sales in our target markets, other components of a voice-based system are also necessary. Our products must be easily integrated with customers’ asset management and information systems. The ability to incorporate speech recognition products into customers’ systems, quickly and without excessive cost or disruption, will be a key factor in our success. We do not now possess all the necessary components for system integration. Acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic relationships may be required for us to develop or obtain access to the necessary components to achieve market penetration. The development of strategic relationships with other software vendors can be a lengthy process as potential partners evaluate the benefit to their business of integrating voice-based solutions, and in particular, our software, into their product offerings. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful and, to the extent we are unsuccessful, our business may be materially adversely affected. There are a number of factors which may cause substantial variability in our quarterly operating results. Our revenue, gross profit, operating income or loss, and net income or loss may vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors. Many factors, some of which are not within our control, may contribute to fluctuations in operating results. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: market acceptance of our products; timing and levels of purchases by customers; interruption and delays in production caused by vendor delays; new product and service introductions by our competitors or us; market factors affecting the availability or cost of qualified technical personnel; timing and customer acceptance of our new product and service offerings; effectiveness of sales efforts by third-party partners; length of sales cycle; introduction and application of new generally accepted accounting principles; and industry and general economic conditions, including the continued economic slowdown of the global economy. We cannot assure you that any of these factors will not substantially influence our quarterly operating results. - 11 - If our third-party partners do not effectively market and service our products, we may not generate significant revenues or profits from sales of our products. We utilize third-parties, such as hardware system vendors, WMS companies, distributors, consultants, VARs and system integrators to sell and/or assist us in selling our products. To date we have signed agreements with several of these third-party partners, and we expect these partners to contribute an increasing percentage of overall revenues in the future. We believe that the establishment of a network of third-party partners, with extensive and specific knowledge of the various applications critical in the industrial market, is important for us to succeed in that market. Some third-party partners also purchase products from us at a discount and incorporate them into application systems for various target markets and/or consult with us in the development of application systems for end users. Once signed, new partners must be trained in the development and sale of voice-based logistics solutions. Accordingly, there can be a significant lead time between the signing of agreements with partners and the recognition of revenues generated by the partners. For the foreseeable future, we may sell fewer products if we cannot attract and retain third-party partners to sell and service our products effectively and provide timely and cost-effective customer support. An increasing number of companies compete for access to the types of partners we use. Additionally, we may experience conflicts between our distribution channel partners who may compete against one another. Our sales may suffer as a result of these conflicts. Either party generally may terminate our current arrangements with third-party partners at any time upon 30 days prior written notice. We cannot assure you that our partners will continue to purchase and re-sell our products or provide us with adequate levels of support. If our partner relationships are terminated or otherwise disrupted, our operating performance and financial results may be adversely affected. If we cannot attract and retain management and other personnel with experience in the areas of our business focus, we will not be able to manage and grow our business. We have been developing and selling our speech recognition products and voice-based technologies since February 1999. Since that time, we have been hiring personnel with skills and experience relevant to the development and sale of these products and technologies. If we cannot continue to hire such personnel and to retain personnel hired, our ability to operate our business will be materially adversely affected. On June 30, 2006, we accelerated the vesting of outstanding stock options to all of our employees, thereby eliminating a possible reason for employees to remain with us. As of June 30, 2009, 31,982 options to purchase shares of our Common Stock were available for grant to employees and directors. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel. If the export of our technology is deemed a violation of the regulations of the United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, our business will be substantially harmed. The Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, oversees implementation and enforcement of the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, which control the export of most commercial items. The BIS regulates "dual-use" items that have both commercial and military or proliferation applications; however, purely commercial items without an obvious military use are also subject to the EAR. The EAR prohibit the export of certain technologies, while the export of other technologies is restricted in certain geographical regions or to certain entities. Exporters deemed in violation of the EAR are subject to substantial penalties. We are developing international channels for the distribution of our speech recognition and voice-based technology, and anticipate increasing our dependence upon revenue derived from foreign sources. If some or all of our products are classified as a restricted technology under the EAR, our ability to generate revenue from international sources will be materially adversely affected. If we cannot protect our proprietary rights and trade secrets, or if we are found to be infringing on the patents and proprietary rights of others, our business would be substantially harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect the proprietary nature of our products, preserve our trade secrets and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. If others obtain and copy our technology or claim that we are making unauthorized use of their proprietary technology, we may become involved in lengthy and costly disputes to resolve questions of ownership of the technology. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to seek licenses to use necessary technology. We cannot assure you that licenses of third-party patents or proprietary rights would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect our intellectual property because the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. To protect our proprietary rights, we seek patents and enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants with respect to proprietary rights and unpatented trade secrets. We cannot assure you those patent applications in which we hold rights will result in the issuance of patents. We cannot assure you that any issued patents will provide significant protection for our technology and products. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop competing technologies that are not covered by our patents. We cannot assure you that confidentiality agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosures. Any unauthorized disclosure and use of our proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 12 - Risks Relating to Our Securities The price of our Common Stock has been highly volatile due to factors that will continue to affect the price of our stock. Our Common Stock traded as high as $5.52 and as low as $0.10 per share between July 1, 2008 and June 30, 2009. Historically, the over-the-counter markets and NASDAQ Capital Market for securities such as our Common Stock have experienced extreme price fluctuations. Some of the factors leading to this volatility include: fluctuations in our quarterly revenue and operating results; announcements of product releases by us or our competitors; announcements of acquisitions and/or partnerships by us or our competitors; increases in outstanding shares of our Common Stock upon exercise or conversion of derivative securities and the issuances of our Common Stock pursuant to our private placement transactions; delays in producing finished goods inventory for shipment; and the small public float of our outstanding Common Stock in the marketplace. There is no assurance that the price of our Common Stock will not continue to be volatile in the future. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of Common Stock may be sold in the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our Common Stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market of such sales, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. On October 25, 2005, we registered 1,084,383,899 shares (7,229,226 shares after giving effect to the 1-for-150 reverse stock split effected in December 2005, or Reverse Split) of Common Stock, including an aggregate of 193,070,922 shares (1,287,139 shares after giving effect to the Reverse Split) of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants. We also previously registered all shares of Common Stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. Sales of outstanding shares, when sold, could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Future sales of our Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our Common Stock that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could impair the ability of our stockholders to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of August 31, 2009, these shares include: approximately 255,000 shares of our Common Stock owned by our executive officers and directors; and approximately 2,409,000 shares of our Common Stock issuable to warrant holders and option holders, which may be sold under various prospectuses filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The sale of substantial amounts of our Common Stock by certain affiliates, including our largest stockholders, or the sale of substantial amounts of our Common Stock received through the exercise of outstanding options and/or warrants, or the perception of such sales, may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. If the holders of the warrants and options to purchase our Common Stock elect to have their collective holdings assumed by a potential acquirer of us, the potential acquirer could be deterred from completing the acquisition. Also, if the holders of the warrants and options to purchase our Common Stock elect to have their holdings remain outstanding after an acquisition of us, the potential acquirer could be deterred from completing the acquisition. Our management and other affiliates have significant control of our Common Stock and could control our actions in a manner that conflicts with our interests and the interests of other stockholders. As of August 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially own approximately 5,933,000 shares of our Common Stock, assuming the exercise of options, warrants and other Common Stock equivalents, which are currently exercisable, held by these stockholders. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and may not always act in the best interests of other stockholders. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. If we are unable to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the marketability of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “VOXW”. In order for our Common Stock to continue trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we must meet certain minimum financial requirements. Among other requirements, the minimum bid price of our Common Stock must remain at least $1.00 per share and the market value of publicly held shares, as defined by the NASDAQ Capital Market, must remain at least $1,000,000. In addition, we must continue to meet at least one of the following three requirements: Stockholders’ equity must be at least $2,500,000; Market value of our Common Stock must be at least $35,000,000; or Net income from continuing operations must be at least $500,000. - 13 - On various occasions during the year ended June 30, 2009, the bid price of our Common Stock closed below $1.00 per share. Because this occurrence was widespread among NASDAQ listed companies, NASDAQ suspended enforcement of its minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement on October 16, 2008. NASDAQ originally announced the suspension of enforcement of the rule would remain in effect through January 16, 2009. However, on December 19, 2008, NASDAQ announced that the suspension of enforcement of the rule was extended through April 17, 2009 and on March 23, 2009 the extension was granted through July 20, 2009. Accordingly, we were not in violation of the minimum bid price requirement for NASDAQ as of June 30, 2009. While we satisfied the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as of June 30, 2009, periods of operating losses may adversely affect our ability to maintain minimum required values of stockholders’ equity or Common Stock market value. If we are unable to satisfy the criteria to maintain listing of our Common Stock, our Common Stock could be subject to delisting. Trading, if any, of our Common Stock would thereafter be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the so-called “Pink Sheets”. As a consequence, it would be far more difficult for our stockholders to trade in our Common Stock, and it may be more difficult to obtain accurate and current information concerning market prices for our Common Stock. Risks Relating to Accounting Rules and Internal ControlsChanges in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable 