ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe that the following are the material risks currently facing our business. Additional risks we are not presently aware of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or stock price. Readers should also refer to the other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. We rely on a few major customers for a significant majority of our business and the loss of any of those customers, or significant changes in prices or other terms with any of our major customers, could reduce our net income and operating results. A few customers account for a significant majority of our net sales each year. In 2009, we had three customers that individually accounted for 10% or more of our net sales: AT&T (48%), TomTom (11%) and Ford (10%). If we lose any of these customers, or if any of them reduces or cancels a significant order or program, our net sales and operating results could decrease significantly. Most of our contracts or arrangements with our customers have a term of three years or less and are terminable by the customer subject to a notice period that ranges from 30 days or less to 180 days. In addition, we periodically renegotiate prices and other terms with our customers, and have historically experienced price reductions in connection with contract renewals. Furthermore, the current economic climate may lead our customers to more aggressively pursue cost reduction initiatives, which could adversely affect the prices we charge for our products and services. Because of the periodic expiration of our customer contracts, the short termination periods of those contracts and periodic price negotiations, we cannot give any assurances of continued business with any of our customers or the stability of prices for our products and services and, therefore, our revenue streams. Our contract with AT&T expires at the end of 2010 and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in negotiating a new contract. From time to time one or more of our customers could experience severe financial difficulty, which could lead to such customers no longer utilizing our products and services, resulting in a potentially material decline in our revenue. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of any such customer could adversely affect our ability to collect the related accounts receivable. Loss of a significant customer could also result in us incurring asset impairment charges and restructuring costs associated with the loss of the customer. During 2009 we received notice of the impending loss of our automatic transmission remanufacturing program with Honda, which accounted for 7% and 10% of our net sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The program was substantially completed by the end of 2009. In connection with the loss of this business, our Drivetrain segment recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $37 million during the second quarter of 2009. Our Logistics business is dependent on the strength of AT&T. AT&T, which accounted for 68% of our Logistics segment net sales for 2009, operates in a highly competitive technology market. The number of wireless devices sold by AT&T, whether to new subscribers or as replacements to existing subscribers, is dependent on its ability to keep pace with technological advancements and to provide service programs and prices that are attractive to current and potential customers. Our net sales to AT&T are substantially related to the number of wireless devices sold by AT&T. Consequently, any material decrease in wireless devices sold by AT&T would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 8 Table of Contents Our Drivetrain business is dependent on our business with Ford. Ford accounted for 35% of our Drivetrain segment net sales for 2009. Consequently, any material decrease in our business with Ford will materially and adversely affect Drivetrain net sales. Our contract with Ford has expired and is currently on a month-to-month basis while we negotiate a new contract. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in negotiating a new contract. Current economic conditions could impact the market for our customers’ products, which would in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Current economic conditions could cause consumers to reduce their purchases of discretionary items that are sold by our customers, such as cellular devices and GPS units, which would in turn reduce the demand for our Logistics services. These conditions also could lead to automobile owners deferring the repair of their out-of-warranty vehicles, which would reduce the demand for our Drivetrain products. Such a reduction in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our financial results are affected by our customers' policies, which are outside our control. Our financial results are also affected by the policies of our customers. Changes to our key customers’ policies that could materially affect our business include: • our customers’ product return policies becoming more restrictive; • reductions in the amount of inventory our customers elect to retain; • guidelines that affect dealer decisions to rebuild transmissions at the dealer rather than install remanufactured transmissions; • a decision not to use remanufactured units for warranty replacements; • shortened warranty periods that could reduce the demand for our products; and • pricing strategies. Substantial competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. Our industry segments are highly competitive. We may not be successful in competing against other companies, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources available to them than we do. Increased competition could require us to reduce prices or take other actions that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Shortages of component parts or cores could adversely affect our business. The test and repair portion of our Logistics business relies on component parts supplied by various third parties, and our Drivetrain business relies on component parts and used transmissions and engines (known as cores) supplied by our customers or various third parties. From time to time we could experience shortages of any of these components or cores due to demand, material shortages or the economic condition of the supplier. Any shortage of parts or cores would prevent us from completing orders on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents Our Drivetrain financial results are affected by transmission failures, which are outside our control. Financial results in our Drivetrain segment are affected by transmission failures, and a drop in the number of failures could adversely affect sales or profitability or lead to variability of operating results. Generally, if transmissions last longer, there will be less demand for our remanufactured transmissions. Transmission failures could drop due to a number of factors outside our control, including: • transmission designs that result in greater reliability; • consumers driving fewer miles per year due to high gasoline prices; • consumers delaying repairs; and • mild weather. We may incur material liabilities under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws. We are subject to various evolving federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. These laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations and impose liability for the costs of cleaning up, and the damages resulting from, past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances. We have periodically conducted environmental investigations, some of which have revealed various environmental matters and conditions that could expose us to liability or which have required us to undertake compliance-related improvements or remedial activities. Any liability we may have under environmental laws could materially affect our business. Our stock price is volatile, and investors may not be able to recover their investment if our stock price declines. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and can be expected to be affected by factors such as: • quarterly variations in our results of operations, which may be impacted by, among other things, price renegotiations with, business outlook changes of, or loss of, our customers; • quarterly variations in the results of operations or stock prices of comparable companies; • announcements of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts; • the stock price performance of our customers; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly. We may experience significant variations in our future quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations may result from many factors, including the condition of our industry in general and shifts in demand and pricing for our products. Our operating results are also highly dependent on our level of gross profit as a percentage of net sales. Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which may be outside of our control. These factors include: • pricing strategies; 10 Table of Contents • changes to our customers’ product return or warranty policies; • changes in product costs from vendors; • the risk of some of the items in our inventory becoming obsolete; • the availability and quality of component parts and cores; • the relative mix of products and services sold during the period; and • general market and competitive conditions. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management and to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. We have various programs in place to motivate, reward and retain our management team, including bonus and stock incentive plans. However, the loss of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend on our ability to hire, train and retain skilled workers in all areas of our business. We cannot predict the impact of unionization efforts on our business. From time to time, labor unions have indicated their interest in organizing a portion of our workforce. Given that some of our customers are in the highly unionized automotive industry, our business is likely to continue to attract the attention of union organizers. While these efforts have not been successful to date except in the case of our former Mahwah, New Jersey facility (which we closed in 2003), we cannot give any assurance that we will not experience additional union activity in the future. Any union organization activity, if successful, could result in increased labor costs and, even if unsuccessful, could result in a temporary disruption of our production capabilities and a distraction to our management. We may be subject to risks associated with future acquisitions. An element of our long-term growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of complementary businesses in order to broaden product and service offerings, capture market share and improve profitability. We will not be able to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities, obtain financing on acceptable terms or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of an acquired business could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management's time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in: • dilutive issuances of equity securities; • reductions in our operating results; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • future impairment of goodwill and other intangibles; and • other acquisition-related expenses. 11 Table of Contents Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business. The businesses we may acquire in the future might not achieve sales and profitability that justify our investment. In addition, to the extent that consolidation becomes more prevalent in our industry, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our growth. We may encounter difficulties in integrating any businesses we acquire with our operations. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to: • retain key management members and technical personnel of acquired companies; • successfully merge corporate cultures and operational and financial systems; and • realize cost reduction and sales synergies. Furthermore, we may not realize the benefits we anticipated when we entered into these transactions. In addition, after we have completed an acquisition, our management must be able to assume significantly greater responsibilities, and this in turn may cause them to divert their attention from our existing operations. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. As of February 16, 2010, we had no debt outstanding. However, our indebtedness could increase substantially from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our consolidated indebtedness level could materially affect our business because: • a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise; • it may materially impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; • it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; • of a prolonged recession and/or unforeseen regulatory changes; and • our ability to pay dividends is limited. In addition, our credit facility requires us to meet specified financial ratios and limits our ability to enter into various transactions. If we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to replace our credit facility when it expires in March 2011 or are otherwise unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our business could be adversely affected. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may hinder or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, even if such a change in control might benefit our stockholders. Our Board of Directors can issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. The rights of common stockholders could be adversely affected by the rights of holders of preferred stock that we issue in the future. These provisions could discourage a third party from trying to obtain control of us. Such provisions may also impede a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a premium over then-current market prices and our stockholders' ability to approve transactions that they consider in their best interests. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 