ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Smaller reporting companies are not required to provide risk factor disclosure on their form 10-K filings. Nevertheless, Accredited Business Consolidators Corp. believes that investors and potential investors should view our company as an extremely high risk and speculative investment. We have outlined certain risk factors below but they may not be complete and additional risk factors may exist: 1. Our Business Is Difficult To Evaluate Because We Have No Ongoing Operations and Minimal Assets. As the Company currently has no ongoing operations other than to find business ventures and with only minimal assets, there is a risk that we will be unable to continue as a going concern and consummate a business combination. We have no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in our incurring a net operating loss that will increase continuously until we can consummate a business combination with a profitable business opportunity. We cannot assure investors that we can identify a suitable business opportunities and consummate the business combinations. 2. We Will Continue To Incur Claims, Liabilities And Expenses. We will continue to incur claims, liabilities and expenses, which will reduce the realizable value of our remaining assets and the amount potentially available for distribution to stockholders. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as salaries, directors' and officers' insurance, payroll and taxes, legal, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred. These expenses will have to be satisfied from our remaining assets and, therefore, will reduce the net realizable value of those assets. 3. Our Business Will Have No Revenues Unless We Acquire An Operating Business or Create a Successful Joint Venture. As of the date hereof, the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, is a “shell company,” defined as a company with no or nominal assets (other than cash) and no or nominal operations. We currently have no revenues from operations. We may not realize any revenues unless and until we successfully acquire an operating business or participate in an active joint venture. 4. Because Of The Deficiencies In Our Past Compliance With Disclosure Rules And The Requirements Of Securities Laws, We Face Risks Of Liability Under The Securities Laws. Although we are presently in compliance with our reporting requirements, we did not achieve this status until May 2011. While we worked with the Securities and Exchange Commission to meet certain deadlines they imposed on us, they still have the right to take action against us. While we have no indication that they will, in the past we have not filed our annual reports for several years. Therefore, we could be named in an administrative, civil or criminal proceeding by the SEC or another government entity, and we could be named in a civil proceeding brought by a stockholder or other private entity. There is no guarantee we would emerge from such a proceeding with the ability to continue as a going concern. The deficiencies in our compliance which we believe could have material consequences for us include the following: We note that we failed to file our reports with the SEC in a timely manner during the second quarter of 2012. This was the result of our inability to upload the reports because the EDGAR system locked us out. We had to reapply for passcodes from the SEC and, upon receipt, we promptly filed our report. We note, however, that another late filing could cause us to be delisted from the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. 5. Our Financial Statements Include A Going Concern Opinion From Our Independent Auditors.The Company received a going concern opinion on its financial statements for fiscal year 2011. Our auditors have stated that due to our lack of assets and operations, there is "substantial doubt" about our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern opinion from our auditors may limit our ability to access certain types of financing, or may prevent us from obtaining financing. 6. Future Success Is Highly Dependent On The Ability Of Management To Locate And Attract A Suitable Acquisition. The nature of our operations is highly speculative and there is a consequent risk of loss of your investment. The success of our operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting that criterion. In the event we complete a business combination, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm, and numerous other factors beyond our control. 7. Future Sales By Existing Security Holders Could Depress the Market Price of Our Common Stock. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. 8. There Are Risks Associated With Our Stock Trading On The Over the Counter Bulletin Board Rather Than A National Exchange. There are significant consequences associated with our stock trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board market rather than a national exchange including limited release of the market prices of our securities, limited news coverage, limited interest by investors in our securities, volatility of our stock price due to low trading volume, limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing, manipulation by traders, and purchase and sale decisions by market makers. 9. There is No Assurance That An Active Public Trading Market Will Develop: There has been an extremely limited public trading market for the Company's common stock. There can be no assurances that a public trading market for the common stock will develop or that a public trading market, if developed, will be sustained. If for any reason a public trading market does not develop, purchasers of the shares of common stock may have difficulty in selling their securities should they desire to do so. 10. "Penny Stock" Regulations May Impose Certain Conditions On The Marketability Of Our Securities. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 a share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock is presently, and most probably will always be, subject to these regulations which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 including their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a "penny stock," unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Commission relating to the "penny stock" market. The broker-dealer must disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. There are other risk factors associated with investing into ACDU that are not outlined above. For that reason, our Company does not constitute an investment that persons, other than those with experience in trading Over the Counter securities, should invest in. 5 