Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of factors, including those specified below, that may adversely affect our business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely impact our financial results or stock price. As used in this Item 1A of the Form 10-K, the terms “we”, “us” and “our” refer to Community Bank Shares of Indiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation and its subsidiaries (unless the context clearly implies otherwise). 12 Index Industry Risk Factors Economic Conditions. Our earnings are affected by the general economic conditions in the United States, and to a lesser extent, general international economic conditions. Economic conditions in the United States and abroad deteriorated significantly in the latter part of 2008. The United States is currently in a recession. The housing market is in decline reflected by falling home prices and increases in foreclosures. Unemployment has increased. These factors have affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, in making significant write-downs of asset values of mortgage-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities. Some financial institutions have failed. Many financial institutions and institutional investors have tightened the availability of credit to borrowers and other financial institutions, which, in turn, results in more loan defaults and decreased business activity. Consumer confidence regarding the economy is low and the financial markets reflect this lack of confidence. This recession has adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and access to capital and credit. We do not expect significant improvement in the economy in the near future, and future declines in the economy will likely make the credit market crisis worse. Recent Regulations Regarding U.S. Financial System. In response to the economic downturn and financial crisis, the U.S. government has enacted legislation by passing the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “Stabilization Act”) followed by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”). These Acts have enabled the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board to develop programs, such as the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Financial Stability Plan and the foreclosure prevention program, to improve funding to consumers, increase interbank lending and reduce home foreclosures. The U.S. government continues to closely evaluate the economy, the effect of its legislation and resulting programs and initiatives on the economy. We expect that the U.S. government will continue to refine these programs and develop new programs. We do not know whether these Acts and programs will positively affect the economy, help stabilize the financial markets and increase the availability of credit. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and access to capital and credit will likely be negatively affected If the economy worsens or the financial markets do not stabilize. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter our business environment and adversely affect our operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that we hold, such as debt securities. We, along with our subsidiaries, are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that we offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect our financial results. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. We compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which we and the financial services industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues and require capital spending. Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and we may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. 13 Index Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of our limited market area. Commercial banks and other financial institutions are affected by economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, value of the dollar, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect profitability. In addition, almost all of our primary business area is located in Southern Indiana and Jefferson County, Kentucky. A significant downturn in this regional economy may result in, among other things, deterioration in our credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to the regional market area, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by an institution with a larger, more diverse market area. Changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce our net interest income. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm our business. Our results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of earnings is net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest-earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we collect on loans and investments. Consequently, along with other financial institutions generally, we are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Company Risk Factors Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, loan portfolio performance, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its financial results. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is historically small, but if nonpayment levels are greater than anticipated, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. No assurance can be given that our underwriting practices or monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our stockholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect profitability. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Maintaining or increasing our market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in our businesses may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. We might not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. 14 Index Acquisitions and the addition of branch facilities may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. We regularly explore opportunities to establish branch facilities and acquire other banks or financial institutions. New or acquired branch facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. We may not be able to correctly identify profitable locations for new branches. The costs to start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing branches, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, may increase our noninterest expense and decrease earnings in the short term. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage growth through the establishment of these branches. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these branch sites will successfully attract enough deposits to offset the expenses of operating these branch sites. Any new or acquired branches will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will succeed in securing such approvals. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition can be intense for the best people in most activities in which we engage. We may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to properties. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our stock price can be volatile and there is a limited trading market for our stock. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: § actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; § recommendations by securities analysts; acquisitions or business combinations; § operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; § new technology used or services offered by our competitors; § news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and § changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. 15 Index In addition, there is a limited trading market for our common stock and shareholders may not be able to resell shares at or above the price paid for them. The price of the common stock purchased may decrease significantly. Although our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "CBIN", trading activity in the stock historically has been sporadic. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of liquidity and order depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. The presence of willing buyers and sellers depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Our historical growth rates may not be sustainable. We may not be able to maintain and manage our growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms. Additionally, we may not continue to be successful in expanding our asset base to a targeted size and managing the costs and implementation risks associated with our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that further expansion will be profitable or that our historical rate of growth will continue to be sustained, either through internal growth or otherwise, or that capital will be maintained sufficient to support continued growth. Furthermore, if we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, rapid growth also could adversely affect our financial performance. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for our liquidity needs. Our holding company status makes us dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We do not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we depend on dividends from our subsidiaries (and, in turn, their subsidiaries) to meet our obligations and obtain revenue. Our right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of our subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of our subsidiaries. Under federal and state law, our subsidiaries are limited in the amount of dividends they may pay to us without prior regulatory approval. Also, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit our subsidiaries from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends at our current annual dividend rate or at all. In particular, the ability to pay dividends in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings and cash requirements. Our FDIC Insurance Assessment could significantly increase. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC approved an interim rule to institute a one-time special emergency assessment of 20 cents per $100 in domestic deposits on June 30, 2009, to be collected by September 30, 2009, to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) reserves depleted by recent bank failures. The interim rule also permits the FDIC to impose an additional special emergency assessment after June 30, 2009 of up-to-10 basis points, if necessary. The FDIC also adopted amendments to its restoration plan for the DIF. The amendments changes to the risk-based assessment system and set assessment rates to require most banks to initial base rates ranging from 12 cents per $100 to 16 cents per $100 on an annual basis, beginning on April 1, 2009. The amendments also change the assessment system include higher rates for institutions that rely significantly on secured liabilities, which may increase the FDIC’s loss in the event of failure without providing additional assessment revenue. Assessments will also be higher for institutions that rely significantly on brokered deposits but, for well-managed and well-capitalized institutions, only when accompanied by rapid asset growth. Based on our budgeted deposit levels, the final approval of this interim rule and the increase of the quarterly assessments would impact the Company by increasing FDIC Insurance Assessment expense by approximately $2.0 million. Our projection will vary to the extent actual deposit levels fluctuate compared to budget. There has been continued debate about the amount of the assessment subsequent to it its announcement with the possibility existing that the assessment may be lowered. Should the assessment be lowered, our estimate of the increase in FDIC assessment expense for 2009 will be lowered as well. Other-than-temporary impairment. Our investment portfolio has approximately $3.0 million of unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008. While we have evaluated each security with an unrealized loss for other-than-temporary impairment under the applicable accounting guidance and concluded that an impairment loss should not be recorded, we cannot assure you that we will not need to record an impairment loss in the future. Should there be deterioration in the credit quality and/or the severity and length of the underlying unrealized losses in our portfolio in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge that could significantly impact our earnings and capital ratios. 16 Index Goodwill impairment. We currently have $15.3 million of goodwill reported as an asset on our balance sheet associated with our acquisition of SCSB for which we are required to at least annually to evaluate for impairment. We have determined that our goodwill is not impaired and have not recorded a charge through earnings. We cannot assure you that we will not need to record a goodwill impairment charge in the future if market conditions do not improve and our stock price does not increase. Also, if the Company’s profitability does not improve, our stock price may decline further which may lead to an increase in the possibility of a goodwill impairment charge. Should we have to record a goodwill impairment charge in the future, our earnings could possibly be significantly impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This item of Form 10-K is inapplicable to the Company inasmuch as it is not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer, nor is it a well-known seasoned issuer. Moreover, the Company has received no written communication from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reporting under the Exchange Act. 17 Index Item 