ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors. There are a number of factors, including those specified below, that may adversely affect the Company's business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know about or currently views as immaterial may also impair the Company's business or adversely impact its financial results or stock price. Industry Risk Factors Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter the Company's business environment and adversely affect operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part the Company's cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company's net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that the Company holds, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that the Company offers and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. The Company cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the Company's financial results. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of the Company's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which the Company and financial services industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues and require capital spending. Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company's financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This "disintermediation" could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company's operations, and the Company may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. The Company's business and financial results are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of the Company's limited market area. Commercial banks and other financial institutions are affected by economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, value of the dollar, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond the Company's control may adversely affect profitability. In addition, almost all of the Company's primary business area is located in Southern Indiana and Jefferson County, Kentucky. A significant downturn in this regional economy may result in, among other things, 8 deterioration in the Bank's credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of the Bank's customers. Due to the regional market area, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on the Company than would be experienced by an institution with a larger, more diverse market area. Changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce the Company's net interest income. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Company's business. Its results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of earnings is net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest-earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest the Bank pays on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest it collects on loans and investments. Consequently, along with other financial institutions generally, the Company is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Company Risk Factors The Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Company's allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its financial results. The Company may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Company's results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is historically small, but if nonpayment levels are greater than anticipated, the Company's earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of its common stock, could be adversely affected. No assurance can be given that the Company's underwriting practices or monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, the Company's stockholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect profitability. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Maintaining or increasing the Company's market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services. The Company's success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company's net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require the Company to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt the Company's existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in the Company's businesses may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The Company might not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, the Company faces significant operational risks. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company's operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. The Company's reported financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. The Company's accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company's management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Company's financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Company's reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company's financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include (without limitation): the allowance for credit losses; the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company's financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company's restating prior period financial statements. 9 Acquisitions and the addition of branch facilities may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. The Company regularly explores opportunities to establish branch facilities and acquire other banks or financial institutions. New or acquired branch facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. The Company may not be able to correctly identify profitable locations for new branches and the costs to start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing branches, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, may increase its noninterest expense and decrease earnings in the short term. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage growth through the establishment of these branches. In addition, the Company can provide no assurance that these branch sites will successfully attract enough deposits to offset the expenses of operating these branch sites. Any new or acquired branches will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that it will succeed in securing such approvals. The Company cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause the Company not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of the Company's business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. The Company's business could suffer if the Company fails to attract and retain skilled people. The Company's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. Significant legal actions could subject the Company to substantial uninsured liabilities. The Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Company's regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Company maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However, the Company's insurance coverage may not cover all claims against the Company or continue to be available to the Company at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Company may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title to properties. In the course of the Company's business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company's stock price can be volatile and there is a limited trading market for the Company's stock. The Company's stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Company's quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; acquisitions or business combinations; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; new technology used or services offered by the Company's competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause the Company's stock price to decrease regardless of the Company's operating results. In addition, there is a limited trading market for the Company's common stock and shareholders may not be able to resell shares at or above the price paid for them. The price of the common stock purchased may decrease significantly. Although the Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "CBIN", trading activity in the stock historically has been sporadic. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of liquidity and order depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. The presence of willing buyers and sellers depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic conditions, all of which are beyond the Company's control. The Company's historical growth rates may not be sustainable. The Company may not be able to maintain and manage its growth, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition and the value of its common stock. No assurance can be provided that the Bank will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms, expanding its asset base to a targeted size and managing the costs and implementation risks associated with its growth strategy. There can be no assurance that further expansion will be profitable or that the Company's historical rate of growth will continue to be sustained, either through internal growth or otherwise, or that capital will be maintained sufficient to support continued growth. Furthermore, if the Bank grows too quickly and is not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, rapid growth also could adversely affect its financial performance. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank for its liquidity needs. The Company's holding company status makes it dependent on dividends from the Bank to meet its obligations. It is a one bank holding company and conducts almost all of its operations through the Bank. It does not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of the Bank. Accordingly, it depends on dividends from the Bank (and, in turn, its subsidiaries) to meet its obligations and obtain revenue. Its right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of the Bank is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Bank. Under federal and state law, the 10 Bank is limited in the amount of dividends it may pay to the Company without prior regulatory approval. Also, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The ability to pay dividends on the Company's common stock is limited. No assurance can be given that the Company will continue to pay dividends at its current annual dividend rate or at all. In particular, the ability to pay dividends in the future will depend upon, among other things, future earnings and cash requirements. 11 