Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of factors, including those specified below, that may adversely affect our business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely impact our financial results or stock price. As used in this Item 1A of the Form 10-K, the terms “we”, “us” and “our” refer to Community Bank Shares of Indiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation and its subsidiaries (unless the context clearly implies otherwise). Industry Risk Factors Economic Conditions. Our earnings are affected by the general economic conditions in the United States, and to a lesser extent, general international economic conditions. Economic conditions in the United States and abroad deteriorated significantly in the latter part of 2008 which continued into 2009. The housing market is in decline reflected by falling home prices and increases in foreclosures. Unemployment has increased. These factors have affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, in making significant write-downs of asset values of mortgage-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities. Some financial institutions have failed. Many financial institutions and institutional investors have tightened the availability of credit to borrowers and other financial institutions, which, in turn, results in more loan defaults and decreased business activity. Consumer confidence regarding the economy is low and the financial markets reflect this lack of confidence. This recession has adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and access to capital and credit. While we have seen some signs of improvement, we do not expect significant improvement in the economy in the near future. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter our business environment and adversely affect our operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that we hold, such as debt securities. 10 We, along with our subsidiaries, are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that we offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect our financial results. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. We compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which we and the financial services industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues and require capital spending. Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and we may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of our limited market area. Commercial banks and other financial institutions are affected by economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, value of the dollar, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect profitability. In addition, almost all of our primary business area is located in Southern Indiana and Jefferson County, Kentucky. A significant downturn in this regional economy may result in, among other things, deterioration in our credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to the regional market area, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by an institution with a larger, more diverse market area. Changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce our net interest income. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm our business. Our results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of earnings is net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest-earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we collect on loans and investments. Consequently, along with other financial institutions generally, we are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Company Risk Factors Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, loan portfolio performance, fair value of collateral securing the loans, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its financial results. 11 We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is historically small, but if nonpayment levels are greater than anticipated, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. No assurance can be given that our underwriting practices or monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our stockholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect profitability. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. We may incur losses in our investments portfolio. Our investment portfolio is comprised of state and municipal securities, residential mortgage-backed agencies issued by U.S. Government sponsored entities securities, trust preferred securities, and mutual funds. We must evaluate these securities for other-than-temporary impairment loss (“OTTI”) on a periodic basis. In 2009, we recognized an OTTI charge on four of our six trust preferred securities holdings. Our remaining trust preferred securities, including those for which we recognized an OTTI charge, still exhibit signs of weakness which may necessitate an OTTI charge in the future should the financial condition of the underling issuers in the pools deteriorate further. Also, given the current economic environment we may need to record an OTTI charges in our other investments the future should the issuers of those securities experience financial difficulties. Any future OTTI charges could significantly impact our earnings. Maintaining or increasing our market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in our businesses may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. We might not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. Acquisitions and the addition of branch facilities may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. We regularly explore opportunities to establish branch facilities and acquire other banks or financial institutions. New or acquired branch facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. We may not be able to correctly identify profitable locations for new branches. The costs to start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing branches, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, may increase our noninterest expense and decrease earnings in the short term. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage growth through the establishment of these branches. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these branch sites will successfully attract enough deposits to offset the expenses of operating these branch sites. Any new or acquired branches will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will succeed in securing such approvals. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. 12 Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition can be intense for the best people in most activities in which we engage. We may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to properties. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. There is a limited trading market for our stock and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The price of the common stock purchased may decrease significantly. Although our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "CBIN", trading activity in the stock historically has been sporadic. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of liquidity and order depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. The presence of willing buyers and sellers depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Our historical growth rates may not be sustainable. We may not be able to maintain and manage our growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms. Additionally, we may not continue to be successful in expanding our asset base to a targeted size and managing the costs and implementation risks associated with our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that further expansion will be profitable or that our historical rate of growth will continue to be sustained, either through internal growth or otherwise, or that capital will be maintained sufficient to support continued growth. Furthermore, if we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, rapid growth also could adversely affect our financial performance. In 2009, our assets decreased which is not consistent with our historical growth rates. We cannot guarantee we will be able return to our historical growth trends in the short term future due to tepid loan demand from qualified loan customers as a result of the current economic environment. Additionally, our ability to grow our assets may be restricted if our regulatory capital is not sufficient to support the growth while maintaining capital ratios that meet the Company’s policy guidelines and satisfy regulatory restrictions. Our status as a holding company makes us dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a bank holding company and conduct almost all of our operations through YCB and SCSB. We do not have any significant assets other than cash and the stock of YCB and SCSB. Accordingly, we depend on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and obtain revenue. Our right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of our subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal and state law, our bank subsidiaries are limited in the amount of dividends they may pay to us without prior regulatory approval. The Banks must maintain sufficient capital and liquidity and be in compliance with other general regulatory restrictions. Bank regulators have the authority to prohibit the subsidiary banks from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. As of December 31, 2009, our subsidiaries are prohibited from paying us a dividend without prior regulatory approval. 13 We cannot predict the effect on our operations of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives that were enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis. U.S. federal, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis. To the extent adopted, many of these actions have been in effect for only a limited time, and have produced limited or no relief to the capital, credit and real estate markets. There is no assurance that these actions or other actions under consideration will ultimately be successful. In the United States, the federal government has adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. With authority granted under these laws, Treasury has proposed a financial stability plan that is intended to: • invest in financial institutions and purchase troubled assets and mortgages from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets; • temporarily increase the limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013; and • provide for various forms of economic stimulus, including assisting homeowners restructure and lower mortgage payments on qualifying loans. Numerous other actions have been taken by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the subprime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007, including the financial stability plan adopted by the Treasury. In addition, President Obama has recently announced various financial regulatory reform proposals, and the House and Senate are expected to consider competing proposals over the coming years. There can be no assurance that the financial stability plan proposed by the Treasury, the other proposals under consideration or any other legislative or regulatory initiatives will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis and improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the Deposit Insurance Fund’s ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a special assessment equal to five basis points of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The Company’s share of an industry-wide FDIC assessment prepayment covering the years 2010 through 2012 collected in December 2009 was $5.2 million. The unamortized prepaid FDIC premium is reflected on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee pay the FDIC an annual assessment of between 15 to 25 basis points, depending on the depository institution’s risk assessment category rating, on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable future. 14 Our ability to pay dividends is subject to certain limitations and restrictions, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue paying the same level of dividends in the future that we paid in 2009 or that we will be able to pay future dividends at all. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of Your Community Bank and The Scott County Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity and by other general restrictions on dividends that are applicable to these banks, including state regulatory requirements. The FDIC and other bank regulators have proposed guidelines and seek greater liquidity, and have been discussing increasing capital requirements. If these regulatory requirements are not met, our subsidiary banks will not be able to pay dividends to us, and we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. The Federal Reserve guidelines generally require us to review the effects of the cash payment of dividends on common stock and other Tier 1 capital instruments (i.e., perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred debt) in light of our earnings, capital adequacy and financial condition. In addition, as a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should not pay dividends on common stock (or make distributions on trust preferred securities) using funds from the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. As a general matter, the Federal Reserve indicates that the board of directors of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce the dividends if: • the company’s net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; • the prospective rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with the company’s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or • the company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. On May 29, 2009, we issued shares of perpetual senior preferred stock to the Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program. The terms of the senior preferred stock restrict the payment of dividends on shares of our common stock. Without the prior consent of Treasury, we are prohibited from increasing common stock dividends beyond the $0.175 quarterly dividend that we paid prior to closing Treasury’s investment for the first three years while Treasury holds the senior preferred stock. Further, we are prohibited from continuing to pay dividends on our common stock unless we have fully paid all required dividends on the senior preferred stock. Although we expect to be able to pay all required dividends on the senior preferred stock, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Changes in future rules applicable to Capital Purchase Program recipients could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On May 29, 2009, we issued 19,468 of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A and a warrant to purchase 386,270 shares of our common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $19,468,000 to the Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the Capital Purchase Program continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. Any redemption of the securities sold to the Treasury to avoid these restrictions would require prior Federal Reserve and Treasury approval. Based on guidelines recently issued by the Federal Reserve, institutions seeking to redeem Capital Purchase Program preferred stock must demonstrate an ability to access the long-term debt markets, successfully demonstrate access to public equity markets and meet a number of additional requirements and considerations before such institutions can redeem any securities sold to the Treasury. If the Company is unable to redeem its Series A Preferred Stock after an initial five-year period, the cost of this capital will increase substantially. If the Company is unable to redeem its Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase from approximately $1.5 million annually (5.0% per annum of the Series A preferred stock liquidation value) to $2.7 million annually (9.0% per annum of the Series A preferred stock liquidation value). This increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A preferred stock would have a material negative effect on the earnings the Company can retain for growth and to pay dividends on its common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written communication from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reporting under the Exchange Act. 15 