ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements that Marvel or its representatives make. Statements that are not statements of historical fact, including comments about our business strategies and objectives, growth prospects and future financial performance, are forward-looking statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “guidance,” “forecast,” “plan,” “outlook” and similar expressions, in filings with the SEC, in our press releases and in oral statements made by our representatives, also identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report. We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statements are made, even if new information becomes available. The risk factors listed below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ significantly from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Exposure to economic downturn. Recent turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity in the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business. There is evidence that this is affecting demand for some of our products and our licensees’ products, and a continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue. A sustained decline in economic conditions could negatively impact the performance of our theatrical and home entertainment releases, the royalties we receive on sales of licensed consumer products and the sales of our trade paperbacks, comic books and advertising. These conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, which could also harm our business. Exposure to tightening of credit markets. U.S. and global credit markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. If these conditions continue or worsen, our costs of borrowing may increase, our existing corporate and/or film facility lenders might violate their commitments to lend, and we might be unable to obtain other financing. Our licensees and publishing retailers may also have increased cost of borrowings and more difficulties in obtaining financing for their operations. Our $100 million corporate line of credit is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2010. While we expect to be able to extend this line of credit, and have used it only on occasion, our inability to extend or replace this line of credit could harm our business. Dependence on a single distributor to the direct market. Sales of our publications to the direct market represent most of our Publishing segment’s net sales. We distribute our publications to the direct market solely through Diamond Comic Distributors, Inc. Diamond handles the vast majority of all publishers’ direct market distribution. If Diamond were to fail to perform under our distribution agreement or if it were to experience financial difficulties, our distribution to the direct market could be severely disrupted and we might be unable to find an adequate replacement distributor. Financial difficulties of licensees. We have licensed to other parties the exclusive right to manufacture and sell various character families in important merchandise categories such as footwear, costumes and interactive games. Our revenues could be adversely affected if those licensees or any of our other significant non-exclusive licensees, many of whom have significant future payment obligations to us, experience financial difficulties or bankruptcy. A decrease in the level of media exposure or popularity of our characters. If movies or television programs based on Marvel characters are not successful, or if certain Marvel characters lose some of their popularity, our ability to interest potential licensees in the use of Marvel characters in general could be substantially diminished, as could the royalties we receive from licensees. 11 Changing consumer preferences. Our products (and those of our licensees) are subject to changing consumer preferences. In particular, products based on feature films are, in general, successfully marketed for only a limited period of time following the film’s release. Existing product lines might not retain their current popularity or new products developed by us or our licensees might not meet with the same success as current products. Our licensees and we might not accurately anticipate future trends or be able to successfully develop, produce and market products to take advantage of market opportunities presented by those trends. Part of our strategy (and the strategy of many of our licensees) is to make products based on the anticipated success of feature film releases and TV broadcasts. If these releases and broadcasts are not successful, these products may not be sold profitably or even at all. In addition, demand for Marvel-branded merchandise could decrease in the event of safety problems in products produced and sold by our licensees. Movie- and television-production delays and cancellations. We do not control the decision to proceed with the production of films and television programs based on characters that we license to studios, and we do not control the timing of the releases of those films and programs. Delays or cancellations of proposed films and television programs could have an adverse effect on our business. Dates we express for the anticipated release of films and launch dates for television programs are anticipated dates only and those events could be delayed or, in some instances, even cancelled. Concentration of toy licensing in one licensee. Most of our toy licensing revenue is generated under a license with Hasbro. Disruption to our relationship with Hasbro or financial difficulties of Hasbro could adversely affect our licensing revenues. In addition, the retail toy business is highly concentrated, and an adverse change in the relationship between Hasbro and one or more of its major customers could have a material adverse effect on us. The bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more significant toy retailers could materially decrease our earnings under the Hasbro license. The current economic turmoil increases the likelihood of those retailers’ suffering financial difficulties. Uncertainties in the film production business. We have only recently entered into the film-production business, with the release in 2008 of our first two self-produced films. We have to make significant up-front investments in film development costs and will not be able to borrow those amounts from the film facility if for some reason the film in development does not meet the lenders’ conditions for funding. If the lenders’ conditions are met, repayment of their loan will depend on the films’ financial success and, with respect to all of our future self-produced films, we will be responsible for funding 33% of the budget ourselves. Should proceeds from the films be insufficient to repay the loan, we could lose the film rights to some important Marvel characters. In addition, our accompanying consolidated statements of net income (also known as our “income statement” or “profit and loss statement”) will reflect any losses suffered by the film facility even if we do not have to fund those losses, and as a result, the volatility of our consolidated financial results could increase. Among the factors that might cause the developments described above, or other material adverse developments concerning our film-production operations, are the following: • We might be unable to attract and retain creative talent. The success of our film-production activities depends to a degree on our ability to hire, retain and motivate top creative talent. Making movies is an activity that requires the services of individuals, such as actors, directors and producers, who have unusual creative talents. Individuals with those talents may be more difficult to identify, hire and retain than are individuals with general business management skills. We have to hire and retain creative talent to assist us in making our movies. If we experience difficulty in hiring, retaining or motivating creative talent, the production of our films could be delayed or the success of our films could be adversely affected. • We will be exposed to changes in fortune on the part of key talent. We may find ourselves partially dependent on key talent (actors, writers, directors) in our most successful movie franchises. A key actor’s incapacitation or damaged reputation, for instance, could impair our ability to profit from that actor’s performance in future films. 12 • Our films might be less successful economically than we anticipate. We cannot predict the economic success of any of our films because the revenue derived from the distribution of a film depends primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which cannot be accurately predicted. The economic success of a film also depends upon the public’s acceptance of competing films, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and unauthorized recording, transmission and distribution of films, general economic conditions, weather conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, none of which can be predicted with certainty. We expect to release a limited number of films per year as part of the film facility. The commercial failure of just one of those films could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. • Our films might be more expensive to make than we anticipate. We expect that the film facility will provide the capital required to produce our films. Expenses associated with producing the films could increase beyond the facility’s limit, however, because of a range of things such as an escalation in compensation rates of talent and crews working on the films or in the number of personnel required to work on films, or because of creative problems or difficulties with technology, special effects and equipment. In addition, unexpected circumstances sometimes cause film productions to exceed budget. • Our film productions might be disrupted or delayed. Our movies productions are subject to long and inflexible schedules. Disruptions or delays to those schedules, by a union strike (such as the one currently threatened by the Screen Actors Guild for the spring of 2009) or by any other event, could cause us to incur additional costs, miss an anticipated release date or go for long periods without releasing a movie, and could hurt our associated licensing and toy programs. • We might be disadvantaged by changes or disruptions in the way films are distributed. The manner in which consumers access film content has undergone rapid and dramatic changes. Some ancillary means of distribution, such as the DVD market, have gained importance, while others have faded. We cannot assure that new distribution channels will be as profitable for the film industry as are today’s channels or that we will successfully exploit any new channels. We can also not assure that current distribution channels, such as the DVD market, will maintain their profitability. In addition, films and related products are distributed internationally and are subject to risks inherent in international trade including war and acts of terrorism, instability of foreign governments or economies, fluctuating foreign exchange rates and changes in laws and policies affecting the trade of movies and related products. • We might lose potential sales because of piracy of films and related products. With technological advances, the piracy of films and related products has increased. Unauthorized and pirated copies of our films will reduce the revenue generated by those films and related products. • We will be primarily dependent on a single distributor for each film. If our studio distributor (Paramount or, in the case of The Incredible Hulk and its sequels, Universal) were to fail to perform under its distribution agreement or if it were to experience financial difficulties, our ability to distribute our films and to receive proceeds from our films could be impaired. • We will depend on our studio distributors for revenue and certain expense information related to the accounting for film-production activities. Because of Paramount’s and Universal’s role as distributor and paymaster of the film facility films, we will depend on them to have internal controls over financial reporting related to the films they distribute and to provide us with timely and accurate financial and other information related to our films. Paramount’s and Universal’s internal controls might not remain sufficient to allow us to meet our internal control obligations. We may be unable to effectively create compensating controls to detect and prevent errors or irregularities in Paramount’s and Universal’s accounting to us and others. 13 • We might fail to meet the conditions set by the lenders for the funding of films. An initial funding of films by the film facility will be made only if the lenders’ conditions are met. Those conditions include our obtaining a completion bond and production insurance. To obtain a completion bond we will need to have in place the main operational pieces to producing a film, including approved schedules for production, cash flow and delivery, an approved budget, an approved screenplay and the key members of the production crew, including the director and producer. We might not be able to satisfy those conditions and obtain a completion bond. In addition, there are very few companies that provide completion bonds in the amounts that we will require, and if the one company with which we have so far made arrangements were to exit the business, we might be unable to obtain a completion bond under any circumstances. If the lenders’ conditions are not met, the film in question will not be funded and we will be forced to absorb the up-front film development costs, which could be material, by using our own funds. • We might fail to meet the tests imposed by the lenders for the funding of films beyond the first four. In order for more than four films to be funded by the film facility, we will have to pass an interim asset test. If the interim asset test is not passed, the film facility may be cut short and, because fewer films will be available to repay the lenders, our risk of losing film rights to some of our characters will increase. • Cash flows from our films might be insufficient to pay our interest costs under the film facility. Future interest on film facility borrowings must be paid from the films’ net collections, rather than from any of our other sources of cash. If cash flow from the films were to dip, even temporarily, below the point required to pay interest under the facility, and below the interest and liquidity reserves that are required to be maintained ($31.4 million at December 31, 2008), then we would be in default and we could be barred by the film facility lenders from making any future borrowings under the facility. • The film facility’s lenders might default. If one or more of the banks in our film facility’s lending consortium were to default in making a required funding and if we were unable to arrange for a replacement bank, the amount available to us under the film facility would drop by the amount of the defaulting bank’s unused commitment and our film productions could be disrupted as a result. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 