ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and that upon the occurrence of any of these events, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The failure to attract and retain key professional personnel could adversely affect the Company. - ------------------- Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and business development personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense. We cannot be certain that we will retain our key managerial, technical and business development personnel or that we will attract or assimilate key personnel in the future. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would materially adversely affect our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This is a major risk factor that could materially impact our operating results. Our future revenue depends on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts and to maintain and renew existing contracts. Our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Our future revenue and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. - ------------------------------------------------ We have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and maintain discipline in our internal systems and controls. Industry trends and our ability to manage and measure project performance will require us to strengthen our internal project and cost control systems within operations that have traditionally operated in a cost-plus environment. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to successfully manage internal growth initiatives, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. - ------------------------------------------------------------- Our growth strategy is to use our technical expertise in conjunction with industry trends. To support this strategy, the Company may elect to fund internal growth initiatives targeted at markets that the Company believes may have significant potential needs for the Company's services. The downside risks are that such initiatives could have a negative effect on current earnings until they reach critical mass, that industry trends have been misread or delayed or that the Company is unable to successfully execute on these initiatives. In these cases, continued funding could have a negative impact on long term earnings. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------- We generally enter into two principal types of contracts with our clients: time-and-materials contracts and fixed-price contracts. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed-price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen expenditures or difficulties, delays beyond our control and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Our ability to secure change orders on scope changes and our ability to invoice for such changes poses an additional risk. In 2006, we suffered significant losses as a result of two fixed-price contracts. In fiscal 2007, approximately 10.9% of our net revenue was derived from fixed-price contracts. 21 Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates or reimbursement at specified mark-up hourly rates and negotiated rates for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Some time-and-materials contracts are subject to contract ceiling amounts, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs generate billings that exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all of our costs. Revenue recognition for a contract requires judgment relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue and costs, and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may also adversely affect future period financial performance. This is a major risk factor that could materially impact our operating results. Economic downturns could have a negative impact on our businesses. - ------------------------------------------------------------------ Demand for the services offered by us has been and is expected to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including demand for engineering services in the petroleum refining, petroleum chemical and pipeline industries and in other industries that we provide services to. During economic downturns in these industries, our customers' need to engage us may decline significantly. We cannot be certain that economic or political conditions will be generally favorable or that there will not be significant fluctuations adversely affecting our industry as a whole or key markets targeted by us. Liability claims could result in losses. - ---------------------------------------- Providing engineering and design services involves the risk of contract, professional errors and omissions and other liability claims, as well as adverse publicity. Further, many of our contracts will require us to indemnify our clients not only for our negligence, if any, but also for the concurrent negligence and, in some cases, sole negligence of our clients. We currently maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for professional errors and omissions. However, claims outside of or exceeding our insurance coverage may be made. A significant claim could result in unexpected liabilities, take management time away from operations, and have a material adverse impact on our cash flow. Additional acquisitions may adversely affect our ability to manage our business. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Acquisitions have contributed to our growth in the past and we plan to continue making acquisitions in the future on terms management considers favorable to us. The successful acquisition of other companies involves an assessment of future revenue opportunities, operating costs, economies and earnings after the acquisition is complete, and potential industry and business risks and liabilities beyond our control. This assessment is necessarily inexact and its accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform reviews of the subject acquisitions that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. These reviews, however, may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the target companies to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We cannot assure you that we will identify, finance and complete additional suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms. We may not successfully integrate future acquisitions. Any acquisition may require substantial attention from our management, which may limit the amount of time that management can devote to day-to-day operations. Our inability to find additional attractive acquisition candidates or to effectively manage the integration of any businesses acquired in the future could adversely affect our ability to grow profitably or at all. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to finance future operations or engage in other business activities. - ----------------------------- As of December 31, 2007, we had $27.8 million of total outstanding indebtedness against our revolving line of credit currently limited to $50 million. Significant factors that could increase our indebtedness and/or limit our ability to finance future operations include: o our inability to collect accounts receivable within contractual terms; o client demands for extending contractual payment terms; o material losses and/or negative cash flows on significant projects; o clients' ability to pay our invoices due to economic conditions; and o our ability to meet current credit facility financial ratios and covenants. 22 Although we are in compliance with all current credit facility covenants, our indebtedness could limit our ability to finance future operations or engage in other business activities. If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. - ---------------------------------- Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed and materials supplied. We bear the risk that our clients will pay us late or not at all. Though we evaluate and attempt to monitor our clients' financial condition, there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess their creditworthiness. Financial difficulties or business failure experienced by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse affect on both our ability to collect receivables and our results of operations. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses and must typically bid against competitors to obtain engineering and service contracts. - -------------------------------------------------------- We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which customer contracts are typically awarded through competitive bidding processes. We compete with other general and specialty contractors, both foreign and domestic, including large international contractors and small local contractors. Some competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which, in some instances, gives them a competitive advantage over us. Our dependence on one or a few customers could adversely affect us. - ------------------------------------------------------------------- One or a few clients have in the past and may in the future contribute a significant portion of our consolidated revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. In 2007, approximately 11% of our revenue was from Motiva, approximately 10% of our revenue was from ConocoPhillips and another 9% were from ExxonMobil. As our backlog frequently reflects multiple projects for individual clients, one major customer may comprise a significant percentage of our backlog at any point in time. Because these significant customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose them in other years as their projects with us are completed. If we do not replace them with other customers or other projects, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, the majority of our contracts can be terminated at will. Additionally, we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers. Our contracts with these customers, however, are on a project-by-project basis and the customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their purchases at any time. The loss of business from any one of such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, an uncertain indicator of our future revenue or earnings. - -------------------------------------------------------------------- As of December 31, 2007, our backlog was approximately $289.2 million. We cannot assure investors that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time prior to project execution and, once project execution begins, it may occur unevenly over the current and multiple future periods. In addition, project terminations, suspensions or reductions in scope may occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog, reducing the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts reflected in our backlog. Future project cancellations and scope adjustments could further reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenue and profits that we actually earn. If the operating result of any segment is adversely affected, an impairment of goodwill could result in a write down. - -------------------------------------- Based on factors and circumstances impacting ENGlobal and the business climate in which it operates, the Company may determine that it is necessary to re-evaluate the carrying value of its goodwill by conducting an impairment test in accordance with Statement on Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, ("SFAS No. 142"). The Company has assigned goodwill to its segments based on estimates of the relative fair value of each segment. If changes in the industry, market conditions, or government regulation negatively impact any of the Company's segments resulting in lower operating income, if assets are harmed, if anticipated synergies or cost savings are not realized with newly acquired entities, or if any circumstance occurs which results in the fair value of any segment declining below its carrying value, an impairment to goodwill would be created. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the Company would be required to write down the carrying value of goodwill. In 2007, the Company determined that goodwill within the Automation segment was impaired in the amount of $432,000. A small number of stockholders own the majority of our outstanding common stock, thus limiting the extent to which other stockholders can affect decisions subject to stockholder vote. - ---------------------------- A small number of stockholders own the majority of our outstanding common stock, thus limiting the extent to which other stockholders can effect decisions subject to stockholder vote. As of December 31, 2007, ENGlobal's directors and 23 executive officers beneficially owned approximately 33.8% of our outstanding common stock and our principal stockholders beneficially owned approximately 22.9% of our outstanding common stock. Collectively these stockholders beneficially own approximately 56.7% of our outstanding common stock and are thus able to affect the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The existence of these levels of ownership concentrated in a few stockholders makes it unlikely that any other holder of common stock will be able to affect the management or direction of the Company. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in management or voting control of the Company. Seasonality of our industry may cause our revenue to fluctuate. - --------------------------------------------------------------- Holidays and employee vacations during our fourth quarter exert downward pressure on revenue for that quarter, which is only partially offset by the year-end efforts on the part of many clients to spend any remaining funds budgeted for services and capital expenditures during the year. The annual budgeting and approval process under which these clients operate is normally not completed until after the beginning of each new year, which can depress results for the first quarter. Principally due to these factors, our first and fourth quarters may be less robust than our second and third quarters. Our Board of Directors may authorize future sales of ENGlobal common stock, which could result in a decrease in value to existing stockholders of the shares they hold. - ---------- Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to an additional 47,295,857 shares of common stock and an additional 2,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock as of the date of filing. These shares may be issued without stockholder approval unless the issuance is 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, in which case the NASDAQ requires stockholder approval. We may issue shares of stock in the future in connection with acquisitions or financings. In addition, we may issue options as incentives under our 1998 Incentive Option Plan or under a new equity incentive plan. Future issuances of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the ability of the board of directors to issue additional stock may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control of the Company, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock. Force majeure events such as natural disasters have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economy and the industries we service, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Force majeure events such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that affected the Gulf Coast in August and September of 2005 could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. For example, these two hurricanes caused considerable damage along the Gulf Coast not only to the refining and petrochemical industry but also the commercial segment which competes for labor, materials and equipment resources needed throughout the entire United States. In some cases, we remain obligated to perform our services after such a natural disaster even though our contracts may contain force majeure clauses. If we are not able to react quickly and/or negotiate contractual relief under a force majeure event, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. - ---------- We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party suppliers and manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire supplies or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price or cost-plus contracts, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or supplier is unable to deliver its services or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services or materials were needed. 24 Unsatisfactory safety performance can affect customer relationships, result in higher operating costs and result in high employee turnover. - ------------------------------------------------------------ Our workers are subject to the normal hazards associated with providing services on constructions sites and industrial facilities. Even with proper safety precautions, these hazards can lead to personal injury, loss of life, damage to, or destruction, of property, plant and equipment, and environmental damage. We are intensely focused on maintaining a safe environment and reducing the risk of accidents. However, poor safety performance may limit or eliminate potential revenue streams from many of our largest customers and may materially increase our future insurance and other operating costs. Our growth strategy requires that we increase the size of our workforce. While we normally target experienced personnel for employment, we also hire inexperienced employees. Even with thorough safety training, inexperienced employees have a higher likelihood of injury which could lead to higher operating costs and insurance rates. The terms of our contracts could expose us to unforeseen costs and costs not within our control, which may not be recoverable and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. - ---------------------------------------------- Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the contract for a fixed price and, as a result, can improve our expected profit by superior contract performance, productivity, worker safety and other factors resulting in cost savings. However, we could incur cost overruns above the approved contract price, which may not be recoverable. Under certain incentive fixed-price contracts, we may agree to share with a customer a portion of any savings we are able to generate while the customer agrees to bear a portion of any increased costs we may incur up to a negotiated ceiling. To the extent costs exceed the negotiated ceiling price, we may be required to absorb some or all of the cost overruns. Fixed-price contract prices are established based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and material needs. These estimates and assumptions may be inaccurate or conditions may change due to factors out of our control, resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. In addition, our profits from these contracts could decrease and we could experience losses if we incur difficulties in performing the contracts or are unable to secure fixed-pricing commitments from our manufacturers, suppliers and subcontractors at the time we enter into fixed-price contracts with our customers. In 2006, we suffered significant losses as a result of two fixed-price contracts. Under cost-plus contracts, we perform our services in return for payment of our agreed upon reimbursable costs plus a profit. The profit component is typically expressed in the contract either as a percentage of the reimbursable costs we actually incur or is factored into the rates we charge for labor or for the cost of equipment and materials, if any, we are required to provide. Some cost-plus contracts provide for the customer's review of the accounting and cost control systems used by us to calculate these labor rates and to verify the accuracy of the reimbursable costs invoiced. These reviews could result in reductions in amounts previously billed to the customer and in an adjustment to amounts previously reported by us as our profit on the contract. Many of our fixed-price or cost-plus contracts require us to satisfy specified progress milestones or performance standards in order to receive a payment. Under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs for labor, equipment and supplies prior to receipt of payment. If the customer fails or refuses to pay us for any reason, there is no assurance we will be able to collect amounts due to us for costs previously incurred. In some cases, we may find it necessary to terminate. In certain cases, we may attempt to recoup some or all of the cost overruns by entering into a claims recovery process. We may even retain a third-party consultant to assist us with necessary due diligence. However, there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover some or all of the cost overruns through the claims recovery process or on terms favorable to the Company. We may incur significant costs in providing services in excess of original project scope without having an approved change order. - ------------------------------------------------------ After commencement of a contract, we may perform, without the benefit of an approved change order from the customer, additional services requested by the customer that were not contemplated in our contract price due to customer changes or to incomplete or inaccurate engineering, project specifications and other similar information provided to us by the customer. Our construction contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred under these circumstances. 25 A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record in the current period an adjustment to revenue and profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly for the period in which such adjustments are made. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, approved change orders in an amount adequate to compensate us for our additional work or expenses. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect us. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their adequacy, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We may be exposed to potential risks resulting from new requirements that we evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. If we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our business and our stock price could be adversely affected. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports and the ability of our auditors to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 