ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party suppliers and manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire supplies or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price or cost-plus contracts, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or supplier is unable to deliver its services or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services or materials were needed. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and maintain discipline in our internal systems and controls. Industry trends and our strategy to pursue larger fixed-price EPC projects, our ability to manage and measure project performance will require us to strengthen our internal project and cost control systems within operations that have traditionally operated in a cost plus environment. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to successfully manage internal growth initiatives, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy is to use our technical expertise in conjunction with industry trends. To support this strategy, the Company may elect to fund internal growth initiatives targeted at markets that the Company believes may have significant potential needs for the Company's services. The downside risks are that such initiatives could have a negative effect on current earnings until such initiatives reach critical mass or that industry trends have been misread or delayed and continued funding could have a negative impact on long term earnings. A small number of stockholders own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, thus limiting the extent to which other stockholders can effect decisions subject to stockholder vote. Directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of ENGlobal and their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, these stockholders, as a group, are able to affect the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The existence of these levels of ownership concentrated in a few persons makes it unlikely that any other holder of common stock will be able to affect the management or direction of the Company. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in management or voting control of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESSOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 