ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents that we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and that upon the occurrence of any of these events, the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY AND STRATEGY Our future revenue depends on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts, provide high quality, cost-effective services, and to maintain and renew existing contracts. Our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenue and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts, provide high quality, cost-effective services, and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. When negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. These factors have impacted our operations in the past several years and may continue to do so. The failure to attract and retain key professional personnel would materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel even in an environment where the contracting process is more difficult. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and business development personnel. In particular, competition for key management personnel continues to be intense. We cannot be certain that we will retain our key managerial, technical and business development personnel or be able to attract or assimilate key personnel in the future. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would materially adversely affect our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our dependence on one or a few customers could adversely affect us. One or a few clients have in the past and may in the future contribute a significant portion of our consolidated revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. In 2013, our top three clients, the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, BASF Corporation and the US Government, accounted for approximately 12.1%, 8.6% and 8.3% of our revenue, respectively. As our backlog frequently reflects multiple projects for individual clients, one major customer may comprise a significant percentage of our backlog at any point in time. Because these significant customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose them in other years as their projects with us are completed. If we do not continually replace them with other customers or other projects, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, the majority of our contracts can be terminated at will. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, our contracts with these customers are on a project-by-project basis and the customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their purchases at any time. In addition, dissatisfaction with the results of a single project could have a much more widespread impact on our ability to get additional projects from a single major client. The loss of business from any one of such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, an uncertain indicator of our future revenue or earnings. As of December 28, 2013, our backlog was approximately $98.5 million, including $50.9 million for the CPC Project. Other than the CPC Project, substantially all of this backlog is expected to be completed in 2014. We expect to complete a majority of the CPC Project backlog in 2015. We cannot assure investors that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Projects currently in our backlog may be canceled or may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time prior to project execution and, once project execution begins, it may occur unevenly over the current and multiple future periods. In addition, project terminations, suspensions or reductions in scope occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog, reducing the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts reflected in our backlog. Future project cancellations and scope adjustments could further reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenue and profits that we actually earn. These adjustments are exacerbated by current economic conditions. 12 Table of Contents Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We rely on third party subcontractors as well as third party suppliers and manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire supplies or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price or time-and-material contracts, we could experience losses on these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or supplier is unable to deliver its services or materials according to the negotiated contract terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services or materials were needed. If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed and materials supplied. We bear the risk that our clients will pay us late or not at all. Though we evaluate and attempt to monitor our clients' financial condition, there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess their creditworthiness. Even if they are credit-worthy, they may delay payments in an effort to manage their cash flow. Financial difficulties or business failure experienced by one or more of our major customers has had and could, in the future, continue to have a material adverse effect on both our ability to collect receivables and our results of operations. Liability claims could result in losses. Providing engineering and design services involves the risk of contract, professional errors and omissions and other liability claims, as well as adverse publicity. Further, many of our contracts require us to indemnify our clients not only for our negligence, if any, but also for the concurrent negligence of our clients. We currently maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for professional errors and omissions. However, claims outside of or exceeding our insurance coverage may be made. A significant claim could result in unexpected liabilities, take management time away from operations, and have a material adverse impact on our cash flow. We may incur significant costs in providing services in excess of original project scope without having an approved change order. After commencement of a contract, we may perform, without the benefit of an approved change order from the customer, additional services requested by the customer that were not contemplated in our contract price due to customer changes or to incomplete or inaccurate engineering, project specifications, and other similar information provided to us by the customer. Our construction contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred under these circumstances as long as we obtain prior written approval. A failure to obtain adequate written approvals prior to performing the work could require us to record an adjustment to revenue and profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly for the period in which such adjustments are made. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, approved change orders in an amount sufficient to compensate us for our additional, unapproved work or expenses. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect us. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their adequacy. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. If we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our business and our stock price could be adversely affected. We have, in the past, identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, and while these have been cured, if we determine that we have further material weaknesses, it could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract. Revenue recognition for a contract requires judgment relative to assessing the contracts estimated risks, revenue and costs and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates have in the past and may continue to adversely affect future period financial performance. Our reduced line of credit availability could limit our ability to finance operations or engage in other business activities and could have a material impact on our financial condition. Historically, we have relied on credit facilities to provide us with adequate working capital to operate our business. On August 30, 2013, we amended the PNC Credit Facility reducing the maximum amount available for borrowings thereunder from $35.0 million to $10.0 million. As of December 28, 2013, there was no balance outstanding on the amended PNC Credit Facility. This reduction in availability under the amended PNC Credit Facility will limit our ability to expand or engage in other business activities, and could have a material impact on our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Force majeure events such as natural disasters could negatively impact the economy and the industries we service, which may negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Force majeure events, such as hurricanes, could negatively impact the economies of the areas in which we operate. For example, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike caused considerable damage along the Gulf Coast not only to the refining and petrochemical industry, but also the commercial segment which competes for labor, materials and equipment resources needed throughout the entire United States. In some cases, we remain obligated to perform our services after a natural disaster even though our contracts may contain force majeure clauses. In those cases, if we are not able to react quickly and/or negotiate contractual relief on favorable terms to the Company, our operations may be significantly and adversely affected, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unsatisfactory safety performance can affect customer relationships, result in higher operating costs and result in high employee turnover. Our workers are subject to the normal hazards associated with providing services on construction sites and industrial facilities. Even with proper safety precautions, these hazards can lead to personal injury, loss of life, damage to, or destruction of property, plant and equipment, and environmental damages. We are intensely focused on maintaining a safe environment and reducing the risk of accidents across all of our job sites. However, poor safety performance may limit or eliminate potential revenue streams from many of our largest customers and may materially increase our future insurance and other operating costs. In hiring new employees, we normally target experienced personnel; however, we also hire inexperienced employees. Even with thorough safety training, inexperienced employees have a higher likelihood of injury which could lead to higher operating costs and insurance rates. The CPC Project, which represents a significant portion of our current business, involves a pipeline expansion project in Russia and Kazakhstan along the Caspian Sea, and we may be adversely affected by operational and political risks in that geographic region that are greater than in the United States. The CPC Project is an engineering, procurement, and commissioning services agreement with the Caspian Pipeline Consortium that is expected to have a total value of approximately $93 million over the life of the contract and represents approximately $50.9 million of our backlog at December 29, 2013. This contract involves a pipeline expansion project in Russia and Kazakhstan along the Caspian Sea. This region, specifically Russia, has undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of unforeseen changes in this region may be greater than in the United States. For example, Russia and the Ukraine are experiencing significant unrest, which could escalate into armed conflict and economic sanctions by the U.S., United Nations or other countries against Russia. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, including with respect to payment of service providers, taxation, transportation, information technology, data transmission and the Internet, or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our ability to perform under the CPC Project and, thus, our business, operating results and financial condition. While we do not believe that the possibility of any armed conflict with respect to the situation in Russia and Ukraine will affect the region in which we perform services under the CPC Project, conducting and expanding our international operations through the CPC Project subjects us to other risks that we do not generally face in the United States. These include: • difficulties in managing the staffing of our international operations, including hiring and retaining qualified employees and transportation of employees to and from the region; • difficulties and increased expense introducing corporate policies and controls in our international operations; • increased expense to comply with foreign laws and legal standards, including laws that regulate pricing and promotion activities and the import and export of information technology, which can be difficult to monitor and are often subject to change; • increased expense to comply with U.S. laws that apply to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and • political, social and economic instability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could negatively affect our operations under the CPC Project and, consequently, our operating results. Further, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that the resources required to perform our services under the CPC Project in these other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 14 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING Our Board of Directors may authorize future sales of ENGlobal common stock, which could result in a decrease in the market value to existing stockholders of the shares they hold. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to an additional 46,936,040 shares of common stock and an additional 2,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock as of the date of filing. These shares may be issued without stockholder approval unless the issuance is 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, in which case the NASDAQ requires stockholder approval. We may issue shares of stock in the future in connection with acquisitions or financings. In addition, we may issue restricted stock or options under our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. Future issuances of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the ability of the Board of Directors to issue additional stock may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control of the Company, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock. Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other energy companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During 2013, the sales price of our stock ranged from a low of $0.30 per share (in April 2013) to a high of $1.88 per share (in October 2013). Factors such as announcements concerning our financial and operating results, the availability of capital, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations and financial results, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. From time to time, there has been limited trading volume in our common stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will continue to be a trading market or that any securities research analysts will continue to provide research coverage with respect to our common stock. It is possible that such factors will adversely affect the market for our common stock. A small number of stockholders own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, thus limiting the extent to which other stockholders can effect decisions subject to stockholder vote. Directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of ENGlobal and their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis as of the date of this Report. Accordingly, these stockholders, as a group, are able to affect the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The existence of these levels of ownership concentrated in a few persons makes it unlikely that any other holder of common stock will be able to affect the management or direction of the Company. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in management or voting control of the Company. Future issuances of our securities in connection with financing transactions or under equity incentive plans could dilute current stockholders’ ownership. We may decide to raise additional funds to fund our operations through the issuance of public or private debt or equity securities. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future issuances of debt, our common stock, other equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or other equity securities or the availability of any of the foregoing for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. The issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or the conversion or exchange of any convertible or exchangeable securities outstanding now or in the future), or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. 