ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) effectively manage the integration of businesses we acquire could adversely affect our profitability. Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- We rely on third party subcontractors as well as third party suppliers and manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire supplies or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price or cost-plus contracts, we could experience losses on these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or supplier is unable to deliver its services or materials according to the negotiated contract terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services or materials were needed. Force majeure events such as natural disasters could negatively impact the economy and the industries we service, which may negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Force majeure events, such as hurricanes, could negatively impact the economies of the areas in which we operate. For example, during 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike caused considerable damage along the Gulf Coast not only to the refining and petrochemical industry, but also the commercial segment which competes for labor, materials and equipment resources needed throughout the entire United States. In some cases, we remain obligated to perform our services after such a natural disaster even though our contracts may contain force majeure clauses. In those cases, if we are not able to react quickly and/or negotiate contractual relief on favorable terms to the Company, our operations may be significantly and adversely effected, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Board of Directors may authorize future sales of ENGlobal common stock, which could result in a decrease in the market value to existing stockholders of the shares they hold. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to an additional 44,209,716 shares of common stock and an additional 2,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock as of the date of filing. These shares may be issued without stockholder approval unless the issuance is 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, in which case the NASDAQ requires stockholder approval. We may issue shares of stock in the future in connection with acquisitions or financings. In addition, we may issue restricted stock or options under our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. Future issuances of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the ability of the Board of Directors to issue additional stock may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control of the Company, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 