ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)In addition, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries including multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of foreign ownership and other laws and regulations that could have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; political and economic instability; changes in local economic environments, including inflation, recession and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; competition with existing market participants which have a longer history in and greater familiarity with the foreign markets we enter; possible longer payment cycles for customers in some foreign countries; difficulty and expense associated with enforcement of agreements and collection of receivables through legal systems in some foreign countries; and difficulty and expense associated with managing a large organization spread throughout numerous foreign countries. Many of these factors typically become more prevalent during periods of economic stress; therefore, current global economic differences may exacerbate these risks. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations will be complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we are in the process of implementing policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts and our business and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, if we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with international expansion and acquisition strategy, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results. Business conducted in many international markets involves complex and evolving tax rules, which subjects us to international tax compliance risks.Many of the foreign tax jurisdictions in which we intend to expand have complex and subjective rules regarding the valuation of inter-company services, cross-border payments between affiliated companies and the related effects on the taxes to which we are subject, including income tax, value-added tax and transfer tax. From time to time, our foreign subsidiaries will be subject to tax audits and may be required to pay additional taxes, interest or penalties should the taxing authority assert different interpretations, or different allocations or valuations, of our services. There is a risk, if one or more taxing authorities significantly disagree with our interpretations, allocations or valuations that any additional taxes, interest or penalties which may result could be material and could reduce our income and cash flow from our international operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 