ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements that Marvel or its representatives make. Statements that are not statements of historical fact, including comments about our business strategies and objectives, growth prospects and future financial performance, are forward-looking statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “guidance,” “forecast,” “plan,” “outlook” and similar expressions, in filings with the SEC, in our press releases and in oral statements made by our representatives, also identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report. We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statements are made, even if new information becomes available. The risk factors listed below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ significantly from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements. Risk Factors A decrease in the level of media exposure or popularity of our characters. If movies or television programs based on Marvel characters are not successful, or if certain Marvel characters lose some of their popularity, our ability to interest potential licensees in the use of Marvel characters in general could be substantially diminished, as could the royalties we receive from licensees. Financial difficulties of licensees. We have licensed to other parties the exclusive right to manufacture and sell some important categories of Marvel merchandise such as video games. Our revenues could be adversely affected if those licensees or any of our other significant non-exclusive licensees, many of whom have significant future payment obligations to us, experience financial difficulties or bankruptcy. Changing consumer preferences. Our products (and those of our licensees) are subject to changing consumer preferences. In particular, products based on feature films are, in general, successfully marketed for only a limited period of time following the film's release. Existing product lines might not retain their current popularity or new products developed by us or our licensees might not meet with the same success as current products. Our licensees and we might not accurately anticipate future trends or be able to successfully develop, produce and market products to take advantage of market opportunities presented by those trends. Part of our strategy (and the strategy of many of our licensees) is to make products based on the anticipated success of feature film releases and TV broadcasts. If these releases and broadcasts are not successful, these products may not be sold profitably or even at all. Movie- and television-production delays and cancellations. We do not control the decision to proceed with the production of films and television programs based on characters that we license to studios, and we do not control the timing of the releases of those films and programs. Delays or cancellations of proposed films and television programs could have an adverse effect on our business. Dates we express for the anticipated release of films and launch dates for television programs are anticipated dates only and those events could be delayed or, in some instances, even cancelled. 10 Transition Difficulties between Licensees. The year 2006 will be a transitional one for us between our exclusive toy license with Toy Biz Worldwide Ltd. (which the Company terminated at the end of 2005) and Hasbro, Inc. (which starts in 2007). During 2006, we will be making and selling Marvel toys ourselves rather than licensing to others the right to do so. Confusion among retailers and distributors in connection with the transition could decrease our sales, as could our own difficulty in managing the transition internally. Market conditions affecting the toy industry could have more of an impact on us (positive and negative) in 2006 than in years when we license the right to make and sell Marvel toys to a third party. Toy-production delays or shortfalls, continued concentration of toy retailers and toy inventory risk. The retail toy business is highly concentrated. The three largest customers for our toy products accounted in the aggregate for approximately 48% of our total toy sales in 2005. An adverse change in, or termination of, the relationship between us or our major toy-producing licensee (Hasbro, starting in 2007) and one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more significant toy retailers could decrease our earnings. In 2006, when Marvel toys will be produced by us, rather than licensed to a third party, our production of excess products to meet anticipated retailer demand could result in markdowns and increased inventory carrying costs for us on even our most popular items. Also, if we underestimate demand for our products, we may be unable to provide adequate supplies of popular toys to retailers in a timely fashion, and may consequently lose sales opportunities. Currency fluctuations and/or the imposition of quotas or tariffs on products manufactured in China. A large number of the toys that we expect to produce in 2006 will be manufactured in China, which subjects us to risks of currency fluctuations, transportation delays and interruptions, and political and economic disruptions. Appreciation of the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. Dollar could reduce the profitability of those toy sales. Our ability to obtain those toys from our Chinese manufacturers is dependent upon the United States' trade relationship with China. The imposition of trade sanctions on China could result in significant supply disruptions or higher merchandise costs to us. We might not be able to find alternate sources of manufacturing outside China on acceptable terms even if we want or need to. Our inability to find those alternate sources could significantly reduce our revenues. Uncertainties to do with our entry into the film production business. We have only recently entered into the film-production business, with the closing in September 2005 of a $525 million financing for a slate of films to be produced by Marvel Studios. Though we have acted as a co-producer and worked alongside film studios that have licensed our characters, we have never produced films by ourselves before and we will not necessarily be successful. In addition, we will have to make significant up-front investments in film development costs and we will not be able to borrow those amounts from the Film Financing if for some reason the film in question does not meet the lenders’ conditions for funding. If the lenders’ conditions are met, repayment of their loan will depend on the films’ financial success. Should proceeds from the films be insufficient to repay the loan, we will lose the film rights to some important Marvel characters. In addition, our consolidated statements of net income (also known as our “income statement” or “profit and loss statement”) will reflect any losses suffered by the film slate even if we do not have to fund those losses, and as a result, the volatility of our consolidated financial results could increase. Among the factors that might cause the developments described above or other material adverse developments are the following: We might be unable to attract and retain creative talent. The success of the film slate will depend to a degree on our ability to hire, retain and motivate top creative talent. Making movies is an activity that requires the services of individuals, such as actors, directors and producers, who have unusual creative talents. Individuals with those talents may be more difficult to identify, hire and retain than are individuals with general business management skills. We will have to hire and retain creative talent to assist us in making our movies. If we experience difficulty in hiring, retaining or motivating creative talent, the production of our films could be delayed or the success of our films could be adversely affected. 11 Our films might be less successful economically than we anticipate. We cannot predict the economic success of any of our films because the revenue derived from the distribution of a film depends primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which cannot be accurately predicted. The economic success of a film also depends upon the public’s acceptance of competing films, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and unauthorized recording, transmission and distribution of films, general economic conditions, weather conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, none of which can be predicted with certainty. We expect to release a limited number of films per year as part of the film slate. The commercial failure of just one of those films could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Our films might be more expensive to make than we anticipate. We expect that the financing will provide the capital required to produce the film slate. Expenses associated with producing the films could increase beyond the financing’s limit, however, because of a range of things such as an escalation in compensation rates of talent and crews working on the films or in the number of personnel required to work on films, or because of creative problems or difficulties with technology, special effects and equipment. In addition, unexpected circumstances sometimes cause film production to exceed budget. Union activity might interrupt our film production. The production of films may involve the use of unionized labor such as members of the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees and the Screen Actors Guild. A strike by one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of our films could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. We might be disadvantaged by changes or disruptions in the way films are distributed. The manner in which consumers access film content has undergone rapid and dramatic changes. Some ancillary means of distribution, such as the DVD market, have gained importance, while others have faded. We cannot assure that new distribution channels will be as profitable for the film industry as are today’s channels or that we will successfully exploit any new channels. We can also not assure that current distribution channels, such as the DVD market, will maintain their profitability. In addition, films and related products are distributed internationally and are subject to risks inherent in international trade including war and acts of terrorism, instability of foreign governments or economies, fluctuating foreign exchange rates and changes in laws and policies affecting the trade of movies and related products. We might lose potential sales because of piracy of films and related products. With technological advances, the piracy of films and related products has increased. Unauthorized and pirated copies of our films will reduce the revenue generated by those films and related products. We will be dependent on a single distributor. If Paramount, which has agreed to distribute the film slate’s films in most of the world, were to fail to perform under its distribution agreement or if it were to experience financial difficulties, our ability to distribute films included in the film slate could be hurt. We will depend on our distributor for the implementation of internal controls related to the accounting of film-production activities. Because of Paramount’s role as distributor and paymaster of the film slate films, we will depend on Paramount to implement internal controls over financial reporting related to those films and to provide us with information related to those internal controls. Paramount’s internal controls might not be sufficient to allow us to meet our internal control obligations, to allow our management to properly assess those controls or to allow our independent public accountants to attest to our management’s assessment. Paramount might fail to cure any internal control deficiencies related to the films that we identify. We may be unable to effectively create compensating controls to detect and prevent errors or irregularities in Paramount’s accounting to the Company and others. 12 We might fail to meet the conditions set by the lenders for the funding of films. An initial funding of films in the film slate will be made only if the lenders’ conditions are met. Those conditions include our obtaining a completion bond and production insurance, and our arranging for distribution in the territories not served by Paramount. To obtain a completion bond we will need to have in place the main operational pieces to producing a film, including approved schedules for production, cash flow and delivery, an approved budget, an approved screenplay and the key members of the production crew, including the director and producer. We might not be able to satisfy those conditions and obtain a completion bond. In addition, there are very few companies that provide completion bonds in the amounts that we will require, and if the one company with which we have so far made arrangements were to exit the business, we might be unable to obtain a completion bond under any circumstances. If the lenders’ conditions are not met, the film in question will not be funded and we will be forced to absorb the up-front film development costs, which could be material, by using our own funds. We might fail to meet the tests imposed by the lenders for the funding of films beyond the first four. In order for more than four films to be funded, the film slate will have to pass an interim asset test and a foreign pre-sales test. If those tests are not passed, the film slate will be cut short and, because fewer films will be available to repay the lenders, our risk of losing film rights to some of our characters will increase. Accounting related to the production of our films may result in significant fluctuations in our reported income or loss. Accounting rules will require that our consolidated statements of net income reflect losses suffered by the film slate, even if we do not have to fund those losses ourselves. The result may be significant fluctuations, and increasing volatility, in our reported financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 