ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business and results of operations. If any of the stated risks actually occur, they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Risks Related to Our Operations We depend on a limited number of key customers, and the loss of any such customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our five largest individual customers, including members of a marketing group, accounted for 59% of our consolidated net sales in 2009, 53% of our consolidated net sales in 2008, and 50% of our consolidated net sales in 2007. During 2009, three of our customers (NAPA Auto Parts, Advance Auto Parts and O’Reilly Automotive/CSK Auto) each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated sales and, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 50.8% of our consolidated sales. The loss of one or more of these customers or, a significant reduction in purchases of our products from any one of them, could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we do not typically enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers, based on their current or projected needs. We have in the past, and may in the future, lose customers or lose a particular product line of a customer due to the highly competitive conditions in the automotive aftermarket industry, including pricing pressures. A decision by any significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to materially decrease the amount of products purchased from us, to change their manner of doing business with us, or to stop doing business with us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our sales are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive, we are under ongoing pressure from our customers to offer lower prices, extend payment terms, increase marketing allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers. These customer demands have put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability, resulted in periodic contract renegotiation to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers, and significantly increased our working capital needs. Our industry is highly competitive, and our success depends on our ability to compete with suppliers of automotive aftermarket products, some of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. While we believe that our business is well positioned to compete in our two primary market segments, Engine Management and Temperature Control, the automotive aftermarket industry is highly competitive, and our success depends on our ability to compete with suppliers of automotive aftermarket products. In the Engine Management Segment, our competitors include AC Delco, Delphi Corporation, Denso Corporation, Robert Bosch Corporation, Visteon Corporation, NGK/NTK, General Cable, Prestolite and United Components, Inc. In the Temperature Control Segment, we compete with AC Delco, Delphi Corporation, Denso Corporation, Sanden International, Inc., Continental/VDO Automotive and Vista-Pro Corporation. In addition, automobile manufacturers supply many of the replacement parts we sell. Some of our competitors may have larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These factors may allow our competitors to: 13 · respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements by devoting greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of automotive aftermarket products and services; · engage in more extensive research and development; · sell products at a lower price than we do; · undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; and · make more attractive offers to existing and potential customers and strategic partners. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop products or services that are equal or superior to our products or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products or that in the future other companies involved in the automotive aftermarket industry will not expand their operations into product lines produced and sold by us. We also cannot assure you that additional entrants will not enter the automotive aftermarket industry or that companies in the aftermarket industry will not consolidate. Any such competitive pressures could cause us to lose market share or could result in significant price decreases and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is substantial price competition in our industry, and our success and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive cost and price structure. There is substantial price competition in our industry, and our success and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive cost and price structure. This is the result of a number of industry trends, including the impact of offshore suppliers in the marketplace, the consolidated purchasing power of large customers and actions taken by some of our competitors in an effort to ‘‘win over’’ new business. We have in the past reduced prices to remain competitive and may have to do so again in the future. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. In addition, we are implementing ongoing facility integration efforts to further reduce costs. Our future profitability will depend in part upon the success of our integration plans, and our ability to respond to changes in product and distribution channel mix, to continue to improve our manufacturing efficiencies, to generate cost reductions, including reductions in the cost of components purchased from outside suppliers, and to maintain a cost structure that will enable us to offer competitive prices. Our inability to maintain a competitive cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is seasonal and is subject to substantial quarterly fluctuations, which impact our quarterly performance and working capital requirements. Historically, our operating results have fluctuated by quarter, with the greatest sales occurring in the second and third quarters of the year and with revenues generally being recognized at the time of shipment. It is in these quarters that demand for our products is typically the highest, specifically in the Temperature Control Segment of our business. In addition to this seasonality, the demand for our Temperature Control products during the second and third quarters of the year may vary significantly with the summer weather and customer inventories. For example, a cool summer may lessen the demand for our Temperature Control products, while a hot summer may increase such demand. As a result of this seasonality and variability in demand of our Temperature Control products, our working capital requirements peak near the end of the second quarter, as the inventory build-up of air conditioning products is converted to sales and payments on the receivables associated with such sales have yet to be received. During this period, our working capital requirements are typically funded by borrowing from our revolving credit facility. 14 We may incur material losses and significant costs as a result of warranty-related returns by our customers in excess of anticipated amounts. Our products are required to meet rigorous standards imposed by our customers and our industry. Many of our products carry a warranty ranging from a 90-day limited warranty to a lifetime limited warranty, which generally covers defects in materials or workmanship and failure to meet industry published specifications. In the event that there are material deficiencies or defects in the design and manufacture of our products and/or installer error, the affected products may be subject to warranty returns and/or product recalls. Although we maintain a comprehensive quality control program, we cannot give any assurance that our products will not suffer from defects or other deficiencies or that we will not experience material warranty returns or product recalls in the future. We accrue for warranty returns as a percentage of sales, after giving consideration to recent historical returns. While we believe that we make reasonable estimates for warranty returns in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, actual returns may differ from our estimates. We have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, material losses and significant costs as a result of our customers returning products to us for warranty-related issues in excess of anticipated amounts. Deficiencies or defects in our products in the future may result in warranty returns and product recalls in excess of anticipated amounts and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected as a result of overstock inventory-related returns by our customers in excess of anticipated amounts. We permit overstock returns of inventory that may be either new or non-defective or non-obsolete but that we believe we can re-sell. Customers are generally limited to returning overstocked inventory according to a specified percentage of their annual purchases from us. In addition, a customer’s annual allowance cannot be carried forward to the upcoming year. We accrue for overstock returns as a percentage of sales, after giving consideration to recent historical returns. While we believe that we make reasonable estimates for overstock returns in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, actual returns may differ from our estimates. To the extent that overstocked returns are materially in excess of our projections, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be materially adversely affected by asbestos claims arising from products sold by our former brake business, as well as by other product liability claims. In 1986, we acquired a brake business, which we subsequently sold in March 1998. When we originally acquired this brake business, we assumed future liabilities relating to any alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products manufactured by the seller of the acquired brake business. In accordance with the related purchase agreement, we agreed to assume the liabilities for all new claims filed after September 1, 2001. Our ultimate exposure will depend upon the number of claims filed against us on or after September 1, 2001 and the amounts paid for indemnity and defense of such claims. Actuarial consultants with experience in assessing asbestos-related liabilities conducted a study to estimate our potential claim liability as of August 31, 2009. The updated study has estimated an undiscounted liability for settlement payments, excluding legal costs and any potential recovery from insurance carriers, ranging from $26.6 million to $66.3 million for the period through 2059. The change from the prior year study was a $1.3 million increase for the low end of the range and a $2.9 million decrease for the high end of the range. Based on the information contained in the actuarial study and all other available information considered by us, we concluded that no amount within the range of settlement payments was more likely than any other and, therefore, recorded the low end of the range as the liability associated with future settlement payments through 2059 in our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, an incremental $2.2 million provision in our discontinued operation was added to the asbestos accrual in September 2009 increasing the reserve to approximately $26.6 million. According to the updated study, legal costs, which are expensed as incurred and reported in earnings (loss) from discontinued operation in the accompanying statement of operations, are estimated to range from $21.4 million to $42 million during the same period. 15 At December 31, 2009, approximately 1,635 cases were outstanding for which we were responsible for any related liabilities. Since inception in September 2001 through December 31, 2009, the amounts paid for settled claims are approximately $9 million. A substantial increase in the number of new claims or increased settlement payments or awards of damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting asbestos-related matters into the future and other factors outside our control, we cannot give any assurance that significant increases in the number of claims filed against us will not occur, that asbestos-related damages or settlement awards will not exceed the amount we have in reserve, or that additional provisions will not be required. Management will continue to monitor the circumstances surrounding these potential liabilities in determining whether additional reserves and provisions may be necessary. We plan on performing a similar annual actuarial analysis during the third quarter of each year for the foreseeable future. In addition to asbestos-related claims, our product sales entail the risk of involvement in other product liability actions. We maintain product liability insurance coverage, but we cannot give any assurance that current or future policy limits will be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. Further, we can give no assurance that adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available to us in the future or that such insurance may be maintained at a reasonable cost to us. In the event of a successful product liability claim against us, a lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters and other disruptions could adversely impact our operations at our distribution centers. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and tornados, could damage our properties and effect our operations, particularly our major distribution centers in Virginia, Texas and Kansas. In addition, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected in the event of other serious disruptions at these facilities due to fire, electrical blackouts, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attack or similar events. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers due to all or a significant portion of our inventory being damaged. We may not be able to effectively shift the delivery of products to our customers if one or more of our distribution centers are significantly disrupted. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect from the restructuring of our operations. We are implementing a number of cost savings programs. Although we expect to realize cost savings as a result of our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve the level of benefits that we expect to realize or we may not be able to realize these benefits within the time frames we currently expect. We are currently rationalizing certain manufacturing operations in order to alleviate redundant capacity and reduce our cost structure. This restructuring will involve moving some U.S. production to Mexico. Our ability to achieve these cost savings could be affected by a number of factors. Changes in the amount, timing and character of charges related to restructuring, failure to complete or a substantial delay in completing the restructuring and planned divestitures, or receipt of lower proceeds from such divestitures than currently is anticipated, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our cost savings is also predicated upon maintaining our sales levels. 16 Risks Related to Liquidity Our substantial indebtedness could negatively affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our convertible debentures. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our total outstanding indebtedness was $76.4 million. In May 2009, we exchanged $12.3 million of our 6.75% convertible subordinated debentures due 2009 for a like principal amount of newly issued 15% convertible subordinated debentures due 2011. In July 2009, we issued $5.4 million aggregate principal amount of 15% unsecured promissory notes that will mature in April 2011. We have an existing revolving bank credit facility of $200 million with General Electric Capital Corporation, as agent, and a syndicate of lenders, which we refer to throughout this Report as our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, we had $58.4 million of outstanding indebtedness and approximately $83 million of availability under this revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could: · make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to our convertible debentures and our 15% promissory notes; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; · limit our ability to pay future dividends; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness and the redemption of our convertible debentures and our 15% promissory notes instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and · increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in a higher interest expense. In addition, we have granted the lenders under our revolving credit facility a first priority security interest in substantially all of our currently owned and future acquired personal property, real property and other assets. We have also pledged shares of stock in our subsidiaries to those lenders. If we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our indebtedness and fund our future operations. Our ability either to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness, to redeem our convertible debentures and our 15% promissory notes, or to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is in part subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. For example, current conditions in the credit markets generally, and those related to the automotive sector specifically, including the ability of vendors to factor receivables from customers, could result in reduced cash flow, or increased challenges in obtaining additional financing or refinancing. Also, in operating our business we depend on the ability of our customers to pay timely the amounts we have billed and any disruption in our customers’ ability to pay us because of financial difficulty, or otherwise, would have a negative impact on our cash flow. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months. Significant assumptions underlie this belief, including, among other things, that there will be no material adverse developments in our business, liquidity or capital requirements. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as: 17 · deferring, reducing or eliminating future cash dividends; · reducing or delaying capital expenditures or restructuring activities; · reducing or delaying research and development efforts; · selling assets; · deferring or refraining from pursuing certain strategic initiatives and acquisitions; · refinancing our indebtedness; and · seeking additional funding. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including our convertible debentures and our 15% promissory notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Sources of financing may not be available to us in the amount or under the terms required. We may seek to access the credit and capital markets in order to repay at maturity or redeem our convertible debentures and our 15% promissory notes. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption over the past several years. The availability of credit, from virtually all types of lenders, has been restricted. Such conditions may persist throughout 2010 and beyond. Continuation of such constraints may increase our costs of borrowing and could restrict our access to this potential source of future liquidity in order to repay at maturity or redeem our convertible debentures and our 15% promissory notes. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as prevailing economic and credit market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and perceptions of our financial prospects. Risks Related to External Factors Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. Current global economic and financial markets conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business. For example, end users may put off discretionary repairs or drive less miles thereby resulting in less need for our products. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. In connection with the sale of products, we normally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables and do not purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that may impair the collectability of those receivables. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. Changes of this type could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. 18 We conduct our manufacturing and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. We have manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries, including Canada, Hong Kong, Poland and Mexico, and increasing our manufacturing footprint in low cost countries is an important element of our strategy. There are a number of risks associated with doing business internationally, including (a) exposure to local economic and political conditions, (b) social unrest such as risks of terrorism or other hostilities, (c) currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls, (d) export and import restrictions, and (e) the potential for shortages of trained labor. In particular, there has been social unrest in Mexico and any increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities in Mexico could impact our business by disrupting our supply chain and the delivery of products to customers. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us is unpredictable and vary from country to country. Any such occurrences could be harmful to our business and our financial results. We may incur liabilities under government regulations and environmental laws, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Domestic and foreign political developments and government regulations and policies directly affect automotive consumer products in the United States and abroad. Regulations and policies relating to over-the-highway vehicles include standards established by the United States Department of Transportation for motor vehicle safety and emissions. The modification of existing laws, regulations or policies, or the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies, such as legislation offering incentives to remove older vehicles from the road, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of materials, substances and wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and the health and safety of employees. Such environmental laws, including but not limited to those under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation & Liability Act, may impose joint and several liability and may apply to conditions at properties presently or formerly owned or operated by an entity or its predecessors, as well as to conditions at properties at which wastes or other contamination attributable to an entity or its predecessors have been sent or otherwise come to be located. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of claims with respect to such matters, and we can give no assurance that violations of such laws have not occurred or will not occur or that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with such claims. One of our facilities is currently undergoing testing for potential environmental remediation, and our reserve balance related to the environmental clean-up at this facility is $2 million at December 31, 2009. The testing and any environmental remediation costs at such facility may be covered by several insurance policies, although we can give no assurance that our insurance will cover any environmental remediation claims. We also maintain insurance to cover our existing U.S. and Canadian facilities. We can give no assurance that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and the liability for known environmental claims pursuant to such environmental laws will not give rise to additional significant expenditures or liabilities that would be material to us. In addition, future events, such as new information, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies of federal, state or local regulatory agencies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Our future performance may be materially adversely affected by changes in technologies and improvements in the quality of new vehicle parts. Changes in automotive technologies, such as vehicles powered by fuel cells or electricity, could negatively affect sales to our aftermarket customers. These factors could result in less demand for our products thereby causing a decline in our results of operations or deterioration in our business and financial condition and may have a material adverse effect on our long-term performance. In addition, the size of the automobile replacement parts market depends, in part, upon the growth in number of vehicles on the road, increase in average vehicle age, change in total miles driven per year, new and modified environmental regulations, increase in pricing of new cars and new car quality and related warranties. The automobile replacement parts market has been negatively impacted by the fact that the quality of more recent automotive vehicles and their component parts (and related warranties) has improved, thereby lengthening the repair cycle. Generally, if parts last longer, there will be less demand for our products and the average useful life of automobile parts has been steadily increasing in recent years due to innovations in products and technology. In addition, the introduction by original equipment manufacturers of increased warranty and maintenance initiatives has the potential to decrease the demand for our products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 ITEM 