ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties and all other information contained or referred to in this Report before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by some or all of the matters described below or other currently unknown factors. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all of your investment. Risks Related to the Current Economic Crisis The current crisis in general economic and market conditions and the volatility and disruption in the financial and capital markets has impacted us and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results in future periods. The United States economy is currently suffering from very unfavorable economic conditions, including a weak recovery from a severe recession in the general economy and a financial crisis impairing the banking system and the financial markets. These negative conditions could persist or become even worse. General economic conditions have deteriorated due to reduced credit resulting from this financial crisis, resulting in slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, deflation and government debt and deficits, volatility in energy prices, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in our markets and other adverse effects on our potential customers and markets. These poor economic conditions have made it very difficult for us to raise the capital we need to complete the development and testing of our products so that we can begin sales. In the event that we are able to begin sales of our products, these poor economic conditions may adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations by extending the length of the sales cycle and causing potential customers to delay, defer or decline to make purchases of our products due to limitations on their capital expenditures and the adverse effects of the economy and the credit markets on them. The weak economy and financial crisis are projected by many economic experts to continue or deteriorate further throughout 2010 or longer. These conditions may make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this current financial crisis and weak economy or of a subsequent economic recovery, or the effects thereof on our customers and our markets. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted in future periods and experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders from major customers. These factors could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, support our working capital requirements and growth objectives, maintain our existing or secure new financing arrangements, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PowerVerde system and could reduce the demand for our products and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for our products. We believe that, in the event that we are able to commercialize our products, many of our end-users will depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a PowerVerde system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the financing necessary to purchase and install PowerVerde systems on favorable terms, or at all and thus lower demand and reduce our net sales. Due to the overall economic outlook, our end-users may change their decision or change the timing of their decision to purchase and install PowerVerde systems. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users will install PowerVerde systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in PowerVerde systems, or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PowerVerde systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of project debt financing or equity investments could reduce the number of our projects that receive financing and thus lower demand for PowerVerde system. 4 Table of Contents Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for renewable energy-sourced electricity applications could reduce demand for our systems. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for renewable-sourced electricity may result in the diminished competitiveness of our systems relative to conventional and non-renewable sources of energy, and could materially and adversely affect our business. In October 2008, the United States Congress extended the 30% federal investment tax credit for both residential and commercial solar installations for eight years, through December 31, 2016. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was signed into law. In addition to adopting certain fiscal stimulus measures that could benefit the PowerVerde systems, this act creates a new program, through the Department of the Treasury, which provides grants equal to 30% of the cost of solar installations that are placed into service during 2009 and 2010 or that begin construction prior to December 31, 2010 and are placed into service by January 1, 2017. This grant is available in lieu of receiving the 30% federal investment tax credit. Other measures adopted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that could benefit renewable electricity generation include the following: (1) a Department of Energy loan guarantee program for renewable energy projects, renewable energy manufacturing facilities and electric power transmission projects and (2) a 30% investment credit for assets used to manufacture technology for the production of renewable energy. Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for renewable electricity generation applications, especially those in our target markets, could cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of our renewable electricity generation systems, which may significantly reduce demand for our systems. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of our systems. We anticipate that our systems and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our systems may result in significant additional expenses to us and our potential customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our systems. Risks Related to Our Business We need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our business. We will need to raise substantial additional funds. Without such additional funds, we may have to cease operations. We will require substantial additional funding for our contemplated research and development activities, commercialization of our products and ordinary operating expenses. Adequate funds for these purposes may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us, especially due to the ongoing weak economy and financial crisis. Insufficient funds may require us to delay or scale back our activities or to cease operations. 5 Table of Contents We face substantial competition in our industry, and we may be unable to attract customers and maintain a viable business. We face substantial competition from numerous other companies, most of whom have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our competition is worldwide, ranging from solo inventors and small businesses all the way to major utility companies and multinational corporations, all of whom are attempting to design, develop and market clean and efficient methods for the generation and delivery of electricity. This competition is expected to increase due to pressures arising from anticipated high prices of oil and natural gas, environmental concerns and the availability of governmental incentives and subsidies. These competitors may prove more successful in offering similar products and/or may offer alternative products which prove superior in performance and/or more popular with potential customers than our products. Our ability to commercialize our products and grow and achieve profitability in accordance with our business plan will depend on our ability to satisfy our customers and withstand increasing competition by providing high-quality products at reasonable prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain a successful competitive position. Our success is dependent on the services of our key management and personnel. Our success will depend in large part upon the skill and efforts of our founders and executive officers, George Konrad and Fred Barker, and other key personnel who may be hired. Loss of any such personnel, whether due to resignation, death, and disability or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, Messrs. Konrad and Barker do not intend to work for PowerVerde on a full-time basis, as they have substantial other business activities. They intend to dedicate the time they deem appropriate to meet PowerVerde’s needs; however, there can be no assurance that they will be willing or able to dedicate such time and attention as would maximize PowerVerde’s chances for success. We have a limited operating history. We have only a limited operating history. We have yet to generate any revenues, and the commercial value of our products is uncertain. There can be no assurance that we will ever be profitable. Further, we are subject to all the risks inherent in a new business including, but not limited to: intense competition; lack of sufficient capital; loss of protection of proprietary technology and trade secrets; difficulties in commercializing its products, managing growth and hiring and retaining key employees; adverse changes in costs and general business and economic conditions; and the need to achieve product acceptance, to enter and develop new markets and to develop and maintain successful relationships with customers, third party suppliers and contractors. We may have difficulty in protecting our intellectual property and may incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in patent infringement litigation. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary technology, which is our principal asset. Our ability to compete effectively will depend to a large extent on our success in protecting our proprietary technology, both in the United States and abroad. There can be no assurance that (i) any patent that we apply for will be issued, (ii) any patents issued, including our existing U.S. Patent No. 6,840,151, on which our current products are based, will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, (iii) that we will have the financial resources to enforce our patents or (iv) the patent rights granted will provide any competitive advantage. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting our patent rights, including those granted by third parties, and we might not be able to afford such expenditures. We have limited protection over our trade secrets and know-how. Although we have entered into confidentiality and invention agreements with our key personnel, there can be no assurance that these agreements will be honored or that we will be able to protect our rights to our non-patented trade secrets and know-how effectively. There can be no assurance that competitors will not independently develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. 6 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain required licenses from third-parties for product development. We may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from third parties. If we do not obtain required licenses, we could encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring these licenses could be foreclosed. The reduction, elimination or unavailability of contemplated government incentives may force our business plan to be changed and may materially adversely affect our business. Our business plan relies to a significant extent on the availability of substantial federal, state and local governmental incentives for the development, production and purchase of energy-saving, environmentally-friendly products such as our systems. These incentives include, among others, tax deductions, tax credits, rebates, accelerated depreciation and government loans, grants and other subsidies. There can be no assurance that some or all of these incentives will not be substantially reduced or eliminated, nor can there be any assurance that any currently proposed incentives will actually take effect. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will ever receive any government loans, grants or other subsidies. Lower energy prices may hinder our ability to attract customers and be profitable. Our products are energy-efficient electric generators which compete primarily with conventional oil and natural gas-generated electricity produced and delivered by conventional utility companies. A significant decrease in the price of oil and/or natural gas could therefore materially adversely affect our competitive position. We have already been adversely affected by the substantial drop in oil and natural gas prices since the onset of the financial crisis in September 2008. We may be unable to purchase materials and parts on commercially reasonable terms from suppliers. Our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain a reliable supply of materials and parts from our suppliers on commercially reasonable terms. This may not prove possible due to competition, inflation, shortages, international crises, adverse economic and political conditions and business failures of suppliers or other reasons. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage. Although we maintain insurance which we consider prudent, there can be no assurance that such insurance will prove adequate in the event of actual casualty losses or broader calamities such as terrorist attacks, earthquakes, financial crises, economic depressions or other catastrophic events, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance for our commercial products. The design, development and manufacture of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. There can be no assurance we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance for any of our proposed commercial products. Such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms or at all. We are also exposed to product liability claims in the event the use of our proposed products result in injury. Risks Related to Our Common Stock; Liquidity Risks Our stock price is highly volatile. The market prices for securities of emerging and development stage companies such as ours have historically been highly volatile, and our limited history has reflected this volatility. Difficulty in raising capital as well as future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the results of testing, technological innovations or new commercial products, government regulations, developments concerning proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to safety of potential products developed by us or others, may have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our stock. 7 Table of Contents We do not pay dividends on our common stock, and we have no intention to do so in the future. For the near-term, we intend to retain remaining future earnings, if any, to finance our operations and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends with respect to our common stock or may be unable to sell at a fair price. There has been limited trading in our stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCBB under the symbol “PWVI.” Since our February 2008 Merger with our predecessor Vyrex Corporation, our stock has been thinly traded, and no assurance can be given as to when, if ever, an active trading market will develop or, if developed, that it will be sustained. As a result, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of our stock which may dilute the value of our stock. As a result of the Merger, we have issued to our predecessor’s shareholders 24,588,734 shares of our common stock. These shares are no longer restricted securities subject to Rule 144. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise could materially adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. We may issue shares of preferred stock that could defer a change of control or dilute the interests of holders of our common stock shareholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors has the power to establish the dividend rates, liquidation preferences, voting rights, redemption and conversion terms and privileges with respect to any series of preferred stock. The issuance of any series of preferred stock having rights superior to those of the common stock may result in a decrease in the value or market price of the common stock and could further be used by the Board as a device to prevent a change in control favorable to the Company. Holders of preferred stock to be issued in the future may have the right to receive dividends and certain preferences in liquidation and conversion rights. The issuance of such preferred stock could make the possible takeover of the Company or the removal of management of the Company more difficult, and adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holder of the common stock, or depress the market price of the common stock. Our common stock is covered by SEC “penny stock” rules which may make it more difficult for you to sell or dispose of our common stock. Since we have net tangible assets of less than $1,000,000, transactions in our securities are subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by this Rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, this Rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and may affect the ability of shareholders to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. The Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any non-NASDAQ equity security of a small company that has a market price (as therein defined) less than $5.00 per share, or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share subject to certain exceptions, and which is not traded on any exchange or quoted on NASDAQ. For any transaction by broker-dealers involving a penny stock (unless exempt), the rules require delivery, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, of a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in an account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. 8 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Prospective investors are cautioned that the statements in this Report that are not descriptions of historical facts may be forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. This Report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management as well as on assumptions made by and information currently available to us as of the date of this Report. When used in this Report, the words “plan,” “will,” “may,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “project” and similar expressions, as they relate to PowerVerde, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although PowerVerde believes these statements are reasonable, actual actions, operations and results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors included in this Report or other factors. We must caution, however, that this list of factors may not be exhaustive and that these or other factors, many of which are outside of our control, could have a material adverse effect on PowerVerde and our ability to achieve our objectives. All forward-looking statements attributable to PowerVerde or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth above. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 