Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Industry Due in part to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor manufacturing industry and related industries, as well as due to volatility in worldwide capital and equity markets, we have previously incurred operating losses and may have future losses. Our business is largely dependent on capital expenditures in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and other businesses employing similar manufacturing technology. The semiconductor manufacturing industry in turn depends on current and anticipated demand for integrated circuits and the products that use them. In recent years, these businesses have experienced unpredictable and volatile business cycles due in large part to rapid changes in demand and manufacturing capacity for semiconductors, and these cycles have had an impact on our business, sometimes causing declining revenues and operating losses. We could experience future operating losses during an industry downturn. If an industry downturn continues for an extended period of time, our business could be materially harmed. Conversely, in periods of rapidly increasing demand, we could have insufficient inventory and manufacturing capacity to meet our customer needs on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of customers and various other expenses that could reduce gross margins and profitability. We face competition which may lead to price pressure and otherwise adversely affect our sales. We face competition throughout the world in each of our product areas. This comes from competitors as discussed in Part I, Item 1, “Business — Competition” as well as internal robotic capabilities at larger OEMs. Many of our competitors have substantial engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products and technologies that could adversely affect sales of our current and future products and services. New products and technologies developed by our competitors or more efficient production of their products could require us to make significant price reductions or decide not to compete for certain orders. If we fail to respond adequately to pricing pressures or fail to develop products with improved performance or developments with respect to the other factors on which we compete, we could lose customers or orders. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and prospects could be materially harmed. Risks Relating to Brooks Our operating results could fluctuate significantly, which could negatively impact our business. Our revenues, operating margins and other operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon a variety of factors, including: • demand for our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor manufacturing industry and the markets upon which it depends or otherwise; 10 Table of Contents • changes in the timing and terms of product orders by our customers as a result of our customer concentration or otherwise; • changes in the mix of products and services that we offer; • changes in the demand for the mix of products and services that we offer; • timing and market acceptance of our new product introductions; • delays or problems in the planned introduction of new products, or in the performance of any such products following delivery to customers; • new products, services or technological innovations by our competitors, which can, among other things, render our products less competitive due to the rapid technological change in our industry; • the timing and related costs of any acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic transactions; • our ability to reduce our costs in response to decreased demand for our products and services; • disruptions in our manufacturing process or in the supply of components to us; • write-offs for excess or obsolete inventory; and • competitive pricing pressures. As a result of these risks, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. If we do not continue to introduce new products and services that reflect advances in technology in a timely and effective manner, our products and services may become obsolete and our operating results will suffer. Our success is dependent on our ability to respond to the technological change present in the markets we serve. The success of our product development and introduction depends on our ability to: • accurately identify and define new market opportunities and products; • obtain market acceptance of our products; • timely innovate, develop and commercialize new technologies and applications; • adjust to changing market conditions; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings; • obtain intellectual property rights where necessary; • continue to develop a comprehensive, integrated product and service strategy; • properly price our products and services; and • design our products to high standards of manufacturability such that they meet customer requirements. If we cannot succeed in responding in a timely manner to technological and/or market changes or if the new products that we introduce do not achieve market acceptance, it could diminish our competitive position which could materially harm our business and our prospects. The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, approximately 56% and 49%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales outside North America. We expect that international sales, including increased sales in Asia, will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. We maintain a global footprint of sales, service and repair operations. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to many risks and uncertainties, including: • longer sales-cycles and time to collection; • tariff and international trade barriers; 11 Table of Contents • fewer or less certain legal protections for intellectual property and contract rights abroad; • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate; • government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates, particularly in Asia and Europe; and • political and economic instability, changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we operate. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could materially harm our business and profitability. Our business could be materially harmed if we fail to adequately integrate the operations of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Our acquisitions present numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • defining and executing a comprehensive product strategy; • managing the risks of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience; • the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of ours or of acquired companies; • unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the installed base of the target company’s products or infringement of another company’s intellectual property by a target company’s activities or products; • problems associated with compliance with the target company’s existing contracts; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business. If we acquire a new business, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. In periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. The failure to adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Entering new markets introduces new competitors and commercial risks. A key part of our growth strategy is to continue expanding into adjacent technology and life sciences markets beyond the semiconductor manufacturing market. As part of this strategy, we expect to diversify our product sales by leveraging our core technologies, which requires investments and resources which may not be available as needed. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in leveraging our capabilities into the life sciences market to meet all the needs of these new customers and to compete favorably. Because a significant portion of our growth potential may be dependent on our ability to increase sales to markets beyond semiconductor manufacturing, an inability to successfully enter new markets may adversely impact future financial results. 12 Table of Contents Changes in key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy. The continuing service of our executive officers and essential engineering, technical and management personnel, together with our ability to attract and retain such personnel, is an important factor in our continuing ability to execute our strategy. There is substantial competition to attract such employees and the loss of any such key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The same could be true if we were to experience a high turnover rate among engineering and technical personnel and we were unable to replace them. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. We rely upon patents, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, copyrights, trademarks and licensing agreements to protect our technology. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the semiconductor and adjacent technology markets, we believe that the improvement of existing technology, reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and the development of new products may be as important as patent protection in establishing and maintaining competitive advantage. To protect trade secrets and know-how, it is our policy to require all technical and management personnel to enter into nondisclosure agreements. We cannot guarantee that these efforts will meaningfully protect our trade secrets. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the semiconductor related industries. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. We cannot guarantee that infringement claims by third parties or other claims for indemnification by customers or end users of our products resulting from infringement claims will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be true, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which we might be required to seek licenses or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the rights of others. We also cannot guarantee that licenses will be available or the terms of any licenses we may be required to obtain will be reasonable. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical and could detract from the value of our products. If a judgment of infringement were obtained against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages and a court could issue an order preventing us from selling one or more of our products. Further, the cost and diversion of management attention brought about by such litigation could be substantial, even if we were to prevail. Any of these events could result in significant expense to us and may materially harm our business and our prospects. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our future operations. Our ability to compete is significantly affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the United States and in other countries. We own numerous U.S. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products and technology. Our current patents will expire from time to time through 2028 and new patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our products. We cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This could require us to incur significant expenses and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. 13 Table of Contents If our manufacturing sites were to experience a significant disruption in operations, our business could be materially harmed. We have a limited number of manufacturing facilities for our products. If the operations of these facilities were disrupted as a result of a natural disaster, fire, power or other utility outage, work stoppage or other similar event, our business could be seriously harmed because we may be unable to manufacture and ship products and parts to our customers in a timely fashion. Our business could be materially harmed if one or more key suppliers fail to continuously deliver key components of acceptable cost and quality. We currently obtain many of our key components on an as-needed, purchase order basis from numerous suppliers. In some cases we have only a single source of supply for necessary components and materials used in the manufacturing of our products. Further, we are increasing our sourcing of products in Asia, and particularly in China, and we do not have a previous course of dealing with many of these suppliers. We do not generally have long-term supply contracts with any of these suppliers, and many of them underwent cost-containment measures in light of the last industry downturn. As the industry has recovered, these suppliers have faced challenges in delivering components on a timely basis. This volatility in demand has led some of our vendors to exit the semiconductor market, and other vendors may also decide to exit this market. Our inability to obtain components or materials in required quantities or of acceptable cost and quality and with the necessary continuity of supply could result in delays or reductions in product shipments to our customers. In addition, if a supplier or sub-supplier suffers a production stoppage or delay for any reason, including natural disasters like the ones that affected Japan and Thailand, this could result in a delay or reduction in product shipments to our customers. Any of these contingencies could cause us to lose customers, result in delayed or lost revenue and otherwise materially harm our business. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. From the beginning of fiscal year 2011 through the end of fiscal year 2012, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $14.59 per share and a low of $6.37 per share. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price may include: • variations in operating results from quarter to quarter; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; • changes in the market price per share of our public company customers; • market conditions in the semiconductor and other industries into which we sell products; • economic conditions in Europe and general economic conditions; • political changes, hostilities or natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods; • low trading volume of our common stock; and • the number of firms making a market in our common stock. In addition, the stock market has in the past experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market prices of the securities of high technology companies like ours. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Customers Because we rely on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenues, the loss of one or more of these customers could materially harm our business. We receive a significant portion of our revenues in each fiscal period from a relatively limited number of customers, and that trend is likely to continue. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 43%, 55% and 63% of our total revenues in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. While we expect this percentage to continue to decrease due to the sale of our contract manufacturing business and our life sciences acquisitions, the loss of one or more of these major customers, a significant decrease in orders from one of these customers, or the inability of one or more customers to make payments to us when they are due could materially affect our revenue, business and reputation. In addition, there has been and may continue to be significant consolidation among some of our largest OEM customers, which could lead to increased pressure to reduce the price of our products and/or decreased market share with the combined companies. Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers may need several months to test and evaluate our products. This increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. The impact of this risk can be magnified during the periods in which we introduce a number of new products, as has been the case in recent years. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products, and we may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customer cancels or changes its plans. In addition, many of our products will not be sold directly to the end-user but will be components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products from among alternative offerings to be incorporated into their equipment at the design stage; so-called design-ins. The OEMs’ decisions often precede the generation of volume sales, if any, by a year or more. Moreover, if we are unable to achieve these design-ins from an OEM, we would have difficulty selling our products to that OEM because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that OEM. Customers generally do not make long term commitments to purchase our products and our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time. Sales of our products are often made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term commitments and contracts. Our customers frequently do not provide any assurance of minimum or future sales and are not prohibited from purchasing products from our competitors at any time. Accordingly, we are exposed to competitive pricing pressures on each order. Our customers also engage in the practice of purchasing products from more than one manufacturer to avoid dependence on sole-source suppliers for certain of their needs. The existence of these practices makes it more difficult for us to increase price, gain new customers and win repeat business from existing customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 