Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Industry Due in part to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor manufacturing industry and related industries, we have recently incurred substantial operating losses and may have future losses. Our business is largely dependent on capital expenditures in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and other businesses employing similar manufacturing technology. The semiconductor manufacturing industry in turn depends on current and anticipated demand for integrated circuits and the products that use them. In recent years, these businesses have experienced unpredictable and volatile business cycles due in large part to rapid changes in demand and manufacturing capacity for semiconductors. The semiconductor industry experienced a prolonged downturn, which negatively impacted us from the third quarter of fiscal 2001 until well into 2003. Although our business became profitable during 2004, a downward trend again developed during fiscal 2005 in the semiconductor industry, and our revenues in fiscal 2005 declined from the prior year. We could continue to experience future operating losses during an industry downturn and any period of uncertain demand. If an industry downturn continues for an extended period of time, our business could be materially harmed. Conversely, if demand improves rapidly, we could have insufficient inventory and manufacturing capacity to meet our customer needs on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of customers and various other expenses that could reduce gross margins and profitability. We face substantial competition which may lead to price pressure and otherwise adversely affect our sales. We face substantial competition throughout the world in each of our product areas. Our primary competitors are Asyst, Camstar, Genesis, IBM, Inficon, Kawasaki, MKS Instruments, Rorze, Sankyo, SHI, Shinko and TDK and other smaller, regional companies. We also endeavor to sell products to OEM manufacturers, such as Applied Materials, Novellus, KLA-Tencor and TEL, that also satisfy their semiconductor and flat panel display handling needs internally rather than by purchasing systems or modules from a supplier like us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities than we do. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products and technologies that could adversely affect sales of our current and future products and services. New products and technologies developed by our competitors or more efficient production of their products could require us to make significant price reductions to avoid losing orders. If we fail to respond adequately to pricing pressures or fail to develop products with improved performance or developments with respect to the other factors on which we compete, we could lose customers or orders. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and prospects could be materially harmed. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Brooks Our operating results could fluctuate significantly, which could negatively impact our business. Our revenues, operating margins and other operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon a variety of factors, including: • demand for our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor manufacturing industry and the markets upon which it depends or otherwise; • changes in the timing and terms of product orders by our customers as a result of our customer concentration or otherwise; • changes in the mix of products and services that we offer; • timing and market acceptance of our new product introductions; • delays or problems in the planned introduction of new products, or in the performance of any such products following delivery to customers; • our competitors’ announcements of new products, services or technological innovations, which can, among other things, render our products less competitive due to the rapid technological change in our industry; • the timing and related costs of any acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic transactions; • our ability to reduce our costs in response due to decreased demand for our products and services; • disruptions in our manufacturing process or in the supply of components to us; • write-offs for excess or obsolete inventory; and • competitive pricing pressures. As a result of these risks, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Delays and technical difficulties in our products and operations may result in lost revenue, lost profit, delayed or limited market acceptance or product liability claims. As the technology in our systems and manufacturing operations has become more complex and customized, it has become increasingly difficult to design and integrate these technologies into our newly-introduced systems, procure adequate supplies of specialized components, train technical and manufacturing personnel and make timely transitions to volume manufacturing. Due to the complexity of our manufacturing processes, we have on occasion failed to meet our customers’ delivery or performance criteria, and as a result we have deferred revenue recognition, incurred late delivery penalties and had higher warranty and service costs. We may experience these problems again in the future. We may be unable to recover expenses we incur due to changes or cancellations of customized orders. There are also substantial unanticipated costs associated with ensuring that new products function properly and reliably in the early stages of their life cycle. These costs have been and could in the future be greater than expected as a result of these complexities. Our failure to control these costs could materially harm our business and profitability. Because many of our customers use our products for business-critical applications, any errors, defects or other performance or technical problems could result in financial or other damage to our customers and could significantly impair their operations. Our customers could seek to recover damages from us for losses related to any of these issues. A product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time- consuming and costly to defend and could adversely affect our marketing efforts. 16 Table of Contents If we do not continue to introduce new products and services that reflect advances in technology in a timely and effective manner, our products and services will become obsolete and our operating results will suffer. Our success is dependent on our ability to respond to the rapid rate of technological change present in the semiconductor manufacturing industry. The success of our product development and introduction depends on our ability to: • accurately identify and define new market opportunities and products; • obtain market acceptance of our products; • timely innovate, develop and commercialize new technologies and applications; • adjust to changing market conditions; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings; • obtain intellectual property rights; • continue to develop a comprehensive, integrated product and service strategy; • properly price our products and services; and • design our products to high standards of manufacturability such that they meet customer requirements. If we cannot succeed in responding in a timely manner to technological and/or market changes or if the new products that we introduce do not achieve market acceptance, we could lose our competitive position which could materially harm our business and our prospects. The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 41% of our revenues were derived from sales outside North America, while approximately 48% of our revenues in fiscal 2005 were derived from sales outside North America. We expect that international sales, including increased sales in Asia, will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to many risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries; • longer sales-cycles and time to collection; • tariff and international trade barriers; • fewer legal protections for intellectual property and contract rights abroad; • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate; • government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and • political and economic changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we operate. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could materially harm our business and profitability. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be materially harmed if we fail to adequately integrate the operations of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire. We acquired Helix effective October 26, 2005 and Synetics effective June 30, 2006. In addition we have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Our acquisitions present numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • defining and executing a comprehensive product strategy; • managing the risks of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience; • the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of ours or of acquired companies; • unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the installed base of the target company’s products or infringement of another Company’s intellectual property by a target Company’s activities or products; • problems associated with compliance with the target company’s existing contracts; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business. If we acquire a new business, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. In periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. The failure to adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. The planned divestiture of the Brooks Software Division could adversely affect our business or our financial results. On November 3, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell the assets of the Brooks software Division (the “Division”) to Applied Materials, Inc. (“Applied”) pending the completion of necessary regulatory approvals. If those approvals are not obtained and the transaction is not completed, the business of the Division could be adversely affected by a loss of customer confidence, a reduction in employee morale and a reduction in revenue. If the sale of the Division is completed, the removal of the Division from Brooks could have an adverse effect on our relationship with customers to whom we have sold both hardware and software products, and the loss of the revenue associated with the Division and the associated profits could adversely affect both our financial results and our ability to diminish the impact on our business of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor manufacturing industry. Failure to retain key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy. The continuing service of our executive officers and essential engineering, technical and management personnel, together with our ability to attract and retain such personnel, is an important factor in our continuing ability to execute our strategy. There is substantial competition to attract such employees and the loss of any such key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The same could be true if we were to experience a high turnover rate among engineering and technical personnel and we were unable to replace them. 18 Table of Contents We face risks related to the restatement of our financial statements and the pending SEC and US Attorney investigations regarding our past practices with respect to equity incentives. On May 16, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission notified us that it had commenced an informal inquiry into certain stock option grants and accounting practices. Subsequently, we have been informed that the informal inquiry has been converted into a formal inquiry, and we have received a subpoena from the SEC requesting, among other things, all documents relating to stock options available for exercise after January 1, 1999. We are cooperating fully with the SEC and will continue to do so as the inquiry moves forward. At this point we are unable to predict what, if any, consequences the SEC investigation may have on us. However, the investigation could result in considerable legal expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. If the SEC were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or fines and could become subject to an administrative order and/or a cease and desist order. The filing of our restated financial statements to correct the discovered accounting errors has not resolved the pending SEC investigation into our past practices with respect to equity incentives. The resolution of the SEC investigation could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements, and/or our restated financial statements, or require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. On May 19, 2006, we received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York (the “US Attorney”) requesting all documents relating to stock option grants between 1995 and the present and documents concerning the restatement of our financial statements. Responsibility for this investigation was subsequently assumed by the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, and we have received a subpoena from that office requesting, among other things, similar documents relating to option grants. The investigation remains ongoing and we are fully cooperating with the US Attorney. We cannot predict when this inquiry will conclude or its eventual outcome. The uncertainty associated with this investigation into our accounting practices and the restatement of our financial statements could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. We face litigation risks relating to our past practices with respect to equity incentives that could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Several lawsuits, including both putative securities class actions and shareholder derivative actions, have been filed against us, our directors and officers and certain of our former directors and officers relating to our past practices with respect to equity incentives. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. We are and may in the future be subject to other litigation arising in the normal course of our business. These actions are in the preliminary stages, and their ultimate outcome may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits will result in significant expense and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these claims may not be covered by insurance. Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. These payments may be material, in particular if any of these individuals become targets of regulatory investigations into our past practices with respect to equity incentives. Risks Relating to Our Customers Because we rely on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenues, the loss of one or more of these customers could materially harm our business. We receive a significant portion of our revenues in each fiscal period from a relatively limited number of customers, and that trend is likely to continue. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 43%, 44% and 39% of our total revenues in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As 19 Table of Contents the semiconductor manufacturing industry continues to consolidate and further shifts to foundries which manufacture semiconductors designed by others, the number of our potential customers could decrease, which would increase our dependence on our limited number of customers. The loss of one or more of these major customers or a decrease in orders from one of these customers could materially affect our revenue, business and reputation. Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers may need several months to test and evaluate our products. This increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. The impact of this risk can be magnified during the periods in which we introduce a number of new products, as was the case during fiscal 2005, and will continue in fiscal 2006. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products, and we may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customer cancels or changes its plans. In addition, many of our products will not be sold directly to the end-user but will be components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of our products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be incorporated into their equipment at the design stage; so-called design-ins. The OEM’s decisions often precede the generation of volume sales, if any, by a year or more. Moreover, if we are unable to achieve these design-ins from OEMs, we would have difficulty selling our products to that OEM because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that OEM. Customers generally do not make long term commitments to purchase our products and our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time. Sales of our products are often made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term commitments and contracts. Our customers frequently do not provide any assurance of minimum or future sales and are not prohibited from purchasing products from our competitors at any time. Accordingly, we are exposed to competitive pricing pressures on each order. Our customers also engage in the practice of purchasing products from more than one manufacturer to avoid dependence on sole-source suppliers for certain of their needs. The existence of these practices makes it more difficult for us to increase price, gain new customers and win repeat business from existing customers. Other Risks We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. We rely upon patents, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, copyrights, trademarks and licensing agreements to protect our technology. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the semiconductor- and flat panel display process equipment industries, we believe that the improvement of existing technology, reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and the development of new products may be as important as patent protection in establishing and maintaining competitive advantage. To protect trade secrets and know-how, it is our policy to require all technical and management personnel to enter into nondisclosure agreements. We cannot guarantee that these efforts will meaningfully protect our trade secrets. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the semiconductor related industries. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by other third parties. We cannot guarantee that infringement claims by third parties or other claims for indemnification by customers or end users of our products resulting from infringement claims will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be true, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Particular elements of our technology could be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights or patents of others. Other companies may hold or obtain patents on inventions or otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology necessary to our business. For example, twice in 1992 and once in 1994 we received notice from General Signal Corporation that it believed that certain of our tool automation products infringed General Signal’s patent rights. We believe the matters identified in the notice from General Signal were also the subject of a dispute between General Signal and Applied Materials, Inc., which was settled in November 1997. There are also claims that have been made by Asyst Technologies Inc. that certain products we acquired through acquisition embody intellectual property owned by Asyst. To date no action has been instituted against us directly by General Signal, Applied Materials or Asyst. We cannot predict the extent to which we might be required to seek licenses or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the rights of others. We also cannot guarantee that licenses will be available or the terms of any licenses we may be required to obtain will be reasonable. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical and could detract from the value of our products. If a judgment of infringement were obtained against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages and a court could issue an order preventing us from selling one or more of our products. Further the cost and diversion of management attention brought about by such litigation could be substantial, even if we were to prevail. Any of these events could result in significant expense to us and may materially harm our business and our prospects. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our future operations. Our ability to compete is significantly affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection, and certain of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our products. We cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This could require us to incur significant expenses and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. If the site of the majority of our manufacturing operations were to experience a significant disruption in operations, our business could be materially harmed. Most of our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in one location. If the operations of these facilities were disrupted as a result of a natural disaster, fire, power or other utility outage, work stoppage or other similar event, our business could be seriously harmed because we may be unable to manufacture and ship products and parts to our customers in a timely fashion. Our business could be materially harmed if one or more key suppliers fail to deliver key components. We currently obtain many of our key components on an as-needed, purchase order basis from numerous suppliers. We do not generally have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers, and many of them have undertaken cost-containment measures in light of the recent downturn in the semiconductor industry. In the event of an industry upturn, these suppliers could face significant challenges in delivering components on a timely basis. Our inability to obtain components in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in delays or reductions in product shipments to our customers. In addition, if a supplier or sub-supplier alters their manufacturing processes suffers a production stoppage for any reason or modifies or discontinues their products, this could result in a delay or reduction in product shipments to our customers. Any of the contingencies could cause us to lose customers, result in delayed or lost revenue and otherwise materially harm our business. 21 Table of Contents We are exposed to potential risks and we will continue to incur increased costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute more than a significant deficiency. As a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. Although we have completed the documentation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2006, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect to continue to incur costs in order to maintain compliance with that section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We continue to monitor controls on an ongoing basis in fiscal 2007 for any deficiencies. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within our company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, if we continue to expand globally, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls will increase and will require that we continue to improve our internal controls. In the future, if we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Recently completed and future acquisitions of companies, some of which may have operations outside the United States, may provide us with challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in our acquired operations. Acquired companies may not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those required by securities laws in the United States. Although we intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in complying with Section 404. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. From the beginning of fiscal year 2005 through the end of fiscal year 2006, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $18.73 per share and a low of $10.61 per share. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price may include: • variations in operating results from quarter to quarter; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; • changes in the market price per share of our public company customers; • market conditions in the semiconductor industry or the industries upon which it depends; • general economic conditions; • political changes, hostilities or natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods; • low trading volume of our common stock; and • the number of firms making a market in our common stock. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market prices of the securities of high technology companies like ours. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents and contracts may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and contracts contain provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our securities, including: • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; • a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; • a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of our shares be obtained for certain actions requiring the vote of our stockholders; and • a requirement under our shareholder rights plan that, in many potential takeover situations, rights issued under the plan become exercisable to purchase our common stock at a price substantially discounted from the then applicable market price of our common stock. We will incur significant stock-based compensation charges related to certain stock options and restricted stock in future periods. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued in December 2004 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”, an amendment of FASB Statements Nos. 123 and 95, that addresses the accounting treatment for employee stock options and other share-based payment transactions. The statement eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and recognized as expenses. These expenses have been incorporated into our financial statements beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2005. Our stock-based compensation cost, which reflects the adoption of Statement 123R, was $8.3 million in fiscal 2006. In future periods, stock-based compensation cost could have a material effect on our net income as a result of Statement 123R, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that were received 180 days or more before September 30, 2006 and remain unresolved. 