Risk Factors” section at the end of “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Such factors include but are not limited to the following cautions: (1) We are subject to the risks encountered by early stage companies, such as risks of intense competition and rapid technological change in our industry, risks that we may not be able to fully utilize relationships with our strategic partners and indirect sales channels, risks that any fluctuations in our quarterly operating results will be significant relative to our revenues and risks that we may not be able to adequately integrate acquired businesses; (2) We may incur future losses and there is no assurance that we will realize sufficient revenues to achieve ongoing profitability; (3) Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; (4) Potential system failures, compromised security measures or lack of capacity issues could negatively affect demand for our services; (5) Growth in the significance of the Internet as a commercial marketplace may occur more slowly than anticipated; (6) We may not be successful in attracting and/or retaining key employees in the future, (7) Third parties may claim that the technology employed in providing our current or future products and services infringes upon their rights and (8) Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. These cautionary statements should be considered in the context of such factors, as well as those disclosed from time to time in the Company's Reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS Company Overview CyberSource Corporation (“CyberSource” or the “Company”) provides secure electronic payment and risk management solutions to organizations that process orders for goods and services over the Internet. CyberSource’s payment solutions allow eCommerce merchants to accept a wide range of online payment options, from credit cards and electronic checks, to global payment options and emerging payment types. Our risk and compliance management tools address complexities common to online merchants such as credit card fraud, online tax requirements, and export controls. Our reporting and management tools facilitate the automation of the flow of complex eCommerce processes, such as recurring billing and payment reconciliation. We partner with and connect to a large network of payment processors and other payment service providers to offer merchants a single source solution. Traditionally, our target customer base has been medium and large enterprises, but during the last five years we have also targeted development and marketing efforts on the small business segment. In 2006, we processed approximately 854 million transactions, a 34% increase over 2005. The dollar value of all credit card authorization requests we processed in 2006 exceeded $34 billion, an average of nearly $4 million per hour. On March 7, 2006, CyberSource acquired auction payment service BidPay.com, Inc. from First Data Corporation. CyberSource purchased proprietary technology, databases, and certain intellectual property rights, including exclusive rights to the BidPay.com brand. On June 14, 2006, the service was re-launched. As of December 31, 2006, BidPay.com had approximately 250,000 registered users and was listed on approximately 500,000 auctions. BidPay.com operates as a wholly owned subsidiary of CyberSource. CyberSource Corporation was founded in 1994 and initially launched software.net, an online software store and built the payment processing capability to support software.net. In 1996, CyberSource Corporation created a second business focused on payment processing and ran two separate business units, an online software store and the payment processing business. On December 31, 1997, two business units were split into two separate corporations through the spin-off of the payment processing business into a separate corporation initially named, Internet Commerce Services Corporation. After the online software store changed its name to software.net Corporation (and later to Beyond.com Corporation), Internet Commerce Services Corporation changed its name to CyberSource Corporation and continues to operate today under that name. Our headquarters is located at 1295 Charleston Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number is (650) 965-6000. We maintain a website at www.cybersource.com. The reference to this website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein. The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Accordingly, the Company files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our website, www.cybersource.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. Market Characteristics In 1997, Forrester Research estimated the total U.S. online market to be $2.4 billion. Their total estimate of U.S. online sales for 2006 is $211.4 billion, a nine year compounded annual growth rate of 64%. Online sales in Europe are growing at an even faster pace according to Forrester Research. In 2006, the U.S. Census Bureau reported that online sales by U.S. retailers grew by 23.4% as compared to a total retail sales growth of 6.1%. At the end of 2006, the U.S. Census Bureau estimated that online sales of these retailers comprised 3.0% of their total U.S. sales, up from 2.5% at the end of 2005. As the online commerce market has grown, business requirements and attitudes about electronic commerce have evolved. What began as an online sales experiment for many organizations has become a strategic component of their business plan. Although credit cards have long been the dominant payment method available to online purchasers, alternative consumer preferences and cultural preferences have impacted the global payment environment. A wide spectrum of payment options, such as debit cards, electronic checks, stored value certificates, and online payment innovations such as Bill Me Later are emerging worldwide. Since 2002, we have experienced a noticeable trend among some of our large U.S. customers to seek greater access to international markets, especially Europe. Conducting online commerce internationally involves supporting more payment types, currency conversions, new payment processors and mitigating higher fraud risk. The growth of eCommerce has also resulted in more complexity with internal business processes. Online fraud has evolved into an organized and systemic threat to online merchants. The latest “CyberSource Fraud Survey,” sponsored by CyberSource 2 Table of Contents and conducted by Mindwave Research in October 2006 concluded that online sellers expected fraudulent transactions to cost on average 1.4% of revenues in 2006. Though that is statistically equivalent to the direct fraud cost projected by the prior year’s survey, the data suggests that the overall cost of fraud, which includes the cost of fraud management and the rejection of good orders, continues to rise. The cost of fraud management is incurred, for example, when merchants require manual intervention, a step that slows order processing and increases costs. Among other things, we are focused on improving our automated management tools to speed the appropriate disposition of orders. Online merchants are also giving increased focus to meeting regulatory requirements in areas such as collection of sales taxes. U.S. merchants are gradually moving toward adding sales tax to their online orders as state and local governments focus on this revenue source. European Union regulations require that all online sellers of digital goods collect the applicable value-added tax for sales in the European Union. In June 2005, in the U.S., Visa and MasterCard began requiring compliance with a comprehensive security requirement called the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI) to limit the threat of cardholder information theft. The combination of these market trends is making the management of electronic payment transactions more complex. Online merchants are finding the need to maintain technical and financial connections with a number of different payment processors and service providers, integrate those disparate connections with a number of internal business systems, allocate manual resources to keep pace with the growth of online sales, and comply with statutory and card association requirements. CyberSource focuses on enabling our customers to meet these market requirements simply and cost effectively. Our goal is to provide a single source solution that simplifies and optimizes online payment. Platform Options CyberSource solutions are made available to customers through hosted services, enterprise software, or a combination of the two. Merchants that elect to outsource processing to CyberSource use our hosted services. Merchants that prefer to maintain processing internally and establish connections directly to processors use our enterprise software, called CyberSource Payment Manager. Both platforms are augmented by CyberSource Professional Services, which provides consulting, design, integration, and optimization services. Over 18,000 customers use our hosted transaction processing services. Key attributes of our hosted services include redundancy of networks and data centers, strict security, and high capacity. In December 2005, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI) was introduced, superseding prior data security standards, including the Visa AIS, Visa CISP, and MasterCard SDP programs. CyberSource is evaluated once annually, and has been certified as compliant for 2006-2007. CyberSource packaged software offerings consist of CyberSource Payment Manager and Decision Manager Custom Edition. CyberSource Payment Manager connects the merchant’s business systems with a variety of payment processors. CyberSource Decision Manager Custom Edition is our enterprise software product for risk management. Decision Manager Custom Edition provides a central software platform for order process management, enabling merchants to automatically determine whether to accept, review, or reject incoming orders. CyberSource Customers Our customers range in size from small sole proprietorships to some of the world’s largest corporations and institutions. To properly serve this diverse set of needs, CyberSource divides its potential market into two segments, both of which require different solutions. Merchants and institutions that have high sales volume generally demand the greatest range of payment options and the most sophisticated risk and management tools. These customers often sell in multiple countries and require support for local currencies and local payment options. High volume customers also frequently need to integrate payment processing with one or more internal business systems. Smaller merchants generally seek simplicity and ease of use. CyberSource addresses these needs with bundled services and integrations into popular online shopping cart software, while bringing to the small business market some of the advantages of CyberSource’s enterprise-level services, including important new payment options such as electronic checks, PayPal, and subscription payment, as well as reliability and high-quality customer support. CyberSource Products and Services CyberSource Payment Solutions CyberSource Advanced 3 Table of Contents For the enterprise customer, CyberSource offers a comprehensive set of payment products and services. Requirements of these larger merchants typically include acceptance of all major credit cards, the ability to bill customers at regular monthly intervals, support for international payment options, sophisticated fraud prevention, and tools to automate internal processes to reduce the administrative costs and burdens of accepting online orders. CyberSource Advanced enables merchants to accept payments made by all major credit or charge cards including American Express, Discover, Diners Club, JCB, MasterCard, and Visa cards. CyberSource customers can also accept payment by corporate procurement cards, electronic checks, and the Bill Me Later service. Merchants that have business models based on subscriptions can take advantage of the CyberSource recurring billing service. For merchants selling internationally, CyberSource supports direct debit, and bank transfers, as well as regional card brands such as Switch, Solo, Visa Electron, Laser, Carte Bleue, Carta Si, and Dankort. CyberSource Essentials CyberSource Essentials gives businesses the ability to accept major credit cards via their websites as well as process telephone, facsimile, and mail order payments using a web-based virtual terminal. CyberSource Essentials includes support for payment options such as eChecks, PayPal, and subscription payment along with our reliability and high quality customer support. CyberSource Global Acquiring (Merchant Account Services) CyberSource provides the underwriting services required for merchants to accept card payments within the United States, as well as accept and process regional payment types worldwide. CyberSource interfaces with the banking system on behalf of the merchant to authorize the payment presented by a merchant’s customer, collect funds from their customer’s bank, and deposit the funds into the merchant’s designated checking account. These services are available as a bundled offering with all CyberSource payment solution packages and software. CyberSource Payment Manager CyberSource Payment Manager is an enterprise software processing platform that operates behind the scenes to authorize and settle payments originating from one or more sales channels. Once installed on the merchant’s servers, CyberSource Payment Manager receives transaction requests from the merchant’s commerce platform, contact center application, point-of-sale or enterprise resource planning system. CyberSource Payment Manager routes those requests to the payment network for authorization, either through our connections or packaged software gateways, and returns the results to dependent business systems. CyberSource Risk Management Solutions The CyberSource suite of modular, scalable services, ranging from fully managed services to individual tools, is designed to help merchants address the growing challenge of online fraud. CyberSource solutions can be implemented as a single component or as fully-integrated systems, and can be managed in-house, outsourced, or constructed as a blend of both. Managed Risk Service This service provides the professional analysis, design, modeling and monitoring services required to optimize transaction conversion, while minimizing manual review and fraud risk associated with card-not-present transactions. We collaborate with customers to set business metrics, review performance, and provide business tools. Rule & Decisioning Systems: CyberSource Decision Manager We offer a range of decision management systems ranging from hosted solutions that include custom rule and case management capabilities to locally managed software that can be customized to the merchant’s installation. Hosted risk services are marketed as CyberSource Decision Manager Standard Edition and CyberSource Decision Manager Advanced Edition. Software installed and managed locally by merchants is marketed as CyberSource Decision Manager Custom Edition. These systems include interfaces to our risk scoring service as well as other external services and the merchant’s own data. Fraud Detection/Verification Tools CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen enhanced by Visa (AFS), the only risk scoring service endorsed and enhanced by Visa U.S.A, Inc., provides a real-time fraud risk assessment. AFS relies on a patented process blending multiple risk models, assessing over 150 attributes of the transaction and transaction histories, to determine the fraud risk associated with a card-not- present order. The results from AFS include a numerical risk score as well as risk profile codes indicating the types of risk detected by the system. 4 Table of Contents Payer Authentication Services Through a single connection to CyberSource, CyberSource customers can use card association authentication systems such as Verified by Visa and MasterCard Secure Code. Delivery Address Verification We offer Delivery Address Verification (DAV) services to verify the validity of addresses worldwide and comply with the U.S. Postal Service’s requirements, such as bar code and carrier route identification. If an address is in error and is found to be correctable, DAV will return a corrected address and identify address elements in error. Tax Calculation and Export Compliance Online organizations often require tools to facilitate tax payment and export regulatory compliance. The CyberSource Tax Service calculates sales and use taxes for over 60,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States and Canada and supports value added tax calculation in 28 countries. The CyberSource Export Compliance service helps online merchants comply with U.S. Government export regulations by comparing orders against a changing list of denied countries or persons. Professional Services Building upon our experience in eCommerce, we employ a team of experts that can help merchants operate effective online businesses. The CyberSource Professional Services group provides business and technical consulting services including technology selection, analysis of impacts of the online business on internal processes, devising merchant-specific risk management strategies, systems installation, integration of CyberSource products and services with the merchants’ existing internal systems, building custom reporting tools, disaster recovery planning, and security consulting. In April 2005, we introduced the CyberSource PCI Compliance Service, a comprehensive assessment and readiness program for eCommerce merchants seeking full compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI). PCI is a unified data security standard developed jointly by Visa and MasterCard aimed at limiting the threat of cardholder information theft. As of December 31, 2006, we employed 13 persons in our Professional Services group. BidPay On March 7, 2006, we acquired auction payment service BidPay.com, Inc. from First Data Corporation. CyberSource purchased proprietary technology, databases, and certain intellectual property rights, including exclusive rights to the BidPay.com brand. On June 14, 2006, the service was re-launched. As of December 31, 2006, BidPay.com had approximately 250,000 registered users and was listed on approximately 500,000 auctions. During the fourth quarter of 2006, BidPay.com revenue was approximately $173,000 and generated a loss. BidPay.com operates as a wholly owned subsidiary of CyberSource. Technology Transaction Services Our transaction processing system employs a modular architecture designed for scalability, reliability, extensibility and performance. This system is composed of multiple groups of servers and routers that appear as a single point of contact to our customers’ systems. This system also utilizes the latest industry standards to maximize compatibility with our customers’ commerce systems. In addition, we have implemented a global network of telecommunications access points that are designed to optimize transaction processing response times and to mitigate the effects of system failures. The primary software components of our system are the transaction databases, the commerce processing engine, the commerce services applications, the CyberSource Order Processing API, the Simple Commerce Messaging Protocol (SCMP) and respective client software. Transaction Database Architecture Two primary sets of databases form the core of our transaction processing system: the transaction processing databases, which maintain information necessary to process each individual transaction, and the post-transaction database, which generates and provides detailed information about customers’ transactions, with advanced reporting capabilities available in XML and other formats. Commerce Engine Our commerce engine manages workflow functions and the required communications between our servers, our database, and our processors, including Barclays Bank, First Data Corporation, Chase Paymentech, Streamline (provided by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group), Vital Processing Services and others. Our commerce engine is designed to meet the transaction processing demands of our customers in a secure, fast, efficient, reliable, scalable and interoperable manner and was designed to scale rapidly to balance and handle peak transaction processing loads. Additional commerce engine servers can be readily added to accommodate increased customer demand. 5 Table of Contents Commerce Services Applications We have developed and licensed a set of software applications that perform the hosted services. These services include credit card processing, electronic check processing, order decision management, gift and promotional certificates, Bill Me Later payment service, payer authentication, PayPal, CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen enhanced by Visa, tax services, delivery address verification, and export compliance. These applications contain the rules and logic necessary to provide our hosted services to customers. In many cases, execution of the applications are distributed among the commerce engine and database systems, enabling us to minimize interruptions during scheduled maintenance when enhancing or adding additional services to meet our customers’ needs. Order Processing API using Web Services In 2003, we introduced the CyberSource Order Processing API to allow the secure and reliable communication of order data from our customers’ systems to CyberSource systems. The Order Processing API provides our customers with a way to send invoice data to CyberSource for processing by any of the CyberSource commerce services applications. Using industry standard web services technologies, including SOAP, XML, and WS Security, the Order Processing API provides customers with an industry recognized implementation path allowing the Order Processing API to be built into customer order management applications. The Order Processing API uses the Data Encryption Standard, RSA/public key cryptography and digital certificates to ensure secure signed communication of transaction data. Simple Commerce Messaging Protocol We developed SCMP to enable efficient and secure connections between our commerce engine systems and our customers’ systems. In order to ensure secure messaging, SCMP utilizes industry standards for secure communications including the Data Encryption Standard, RSA/public key cryptography and digital certificates. SCMP has been designed so that it can be integrated into virtually any commerce server platform. Client Software Our commerce services are invoked by a common programming interface residing on our customers’ commerce servers. Client software is provided for SCMP and Order Processing API interfaces and can be easily installed by customers using pre-built developer kits and application plug-ins. These developer kits are available for most popular Internet programming environments, including ASP/COM, .NET, Java and others, and for most operating systems, including Windows NT/2000, Linux, and UNIX (Solaris, HP/UX, IBM/AIX and others). Developer kits also come with samples that customers can use to quickly deploy CyberSource services within their enterprises. Data Centers and Network Access Our data centers are located at facilities in Santa Clara and San Jose California, Denver, Colorado London, England and Tokyo, Japan. These secure data center facilities contain our servers, network firewalls, routers and other technology necessary to provide high availability transaction services and connectivity to the Internet, our customers and processing partners. The data centers provide high-speed and redundant network connectivity, uninterruptible power systems, fire detection and suppression systems, physical security and surveillance on a 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year basis. In addition, we have access to numerous network points of presence located on five continents from third party providers enhancing our ability to serve customers globally. These points of presence, through controlled route announcements to providers such as AT&T, UU-NET, Sprint, GLBX, Cable & Wireless, Verio, AboveNet, Telia and Level 3 Communications, enable us to provide direct, rapid and reliable access to our suite of services. Industry Standards The implementation of our architecture for hosted services is based on and complies with widely accepted industry standards. For example, the commerce engine utilizes components from industry leaders such as Cisco, Hewlett Packard, IBM, Microsoft, Red Hat, RSA Data Security, Sun Microsystems and Sybase. Adherence to industry standards provides compatibility with existing applications, ease of modification, and reduces the need for software modules to be rewritten over time, thus protecting our customers’ investments. 6 Table of Contents Enterprise Software CyberSource Payment Manager The CyberSource Payment Manager product is based on modular systems architecture that allows this server to be installed into large customer infrastructures where a dedicated payment gateway interface will be used. The CyberSource Payment Manager is designed as a three-layer software architecture well suited for enterprise deployment. These layers include the multiple sales channel interface, core server, and database. The CyberSource Payment Manager core server supports a common programming interface that can be adapted to multiple sales channel enterprise systems. These sales systems could be used in conjunction with a call center in order to accept orders through an interactive voice response unit, from a Web server using hypertext transfer protocol, from a point-of-sale terminal, or from a wireless application protocol device. This architecture supports our belief that enterprises will demand a payment server capable of supporting multiple, independent sales channels, and that the enterprise sees significant benefit in being able to manage and control a single transaction payment platform. The database layer is based on a standard structured query language (SQL) interface, offering a choice of implementations with any of the standard relational database management systems (RDBMS) on the market. Database platforms currently used by our customers include Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, and Sybase. CyberSource Decision Manager Custom Edition CyberSource Decision Manager Custom Edition is powerful and flexible order decision/fraud management software that enables customers to customize fraud rules based on their specific product, industry, and environment variables. It intelligently and efficiently routes transactions for processing or customer service action and provides customers with the ability to adapt quickly to emerging fraud trends. The decision engine itself is built on standard Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) technology and is currently deployable on the BEA WebLogic Platform, IBM WebSphere Application Server or JBOSS Application Server. Back-end database connectivity is provided through the Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) application programming interface, an integral part of the J2EE standard. Currently supported databases are IBM DB2, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle RDBMS. The architecture is extensible through a standards-based XML developer API, allowing our professional services organization or the customer to build custom plug-ins that can communicate with other external data sources. These data sources can provide additional information about the customer’s order, allowing more flexibility in determining associated risk. Standard plug-ins available from CyberSource connect Decision Manager Custom Edition to all of our hosted services, to CyberSource Payment Manager, as well as to third-party services. Product Development Our product development team is responsible for the design, development, and release of our software and core infrastructure for services. We emphasize quality assurance throughout our development lifecycle. We believe that a strong emphasis placed on analysis and design early in the project lifecycle reduces the number and costs of defects that may be found in later stages. When appropriate, we utilize third parties to expand the capacity and technical expertise of our internal product development organization. On occasion, we have licensed third-party technology that we feel provides the strongest technical alternative. We believe this approach shortens time-to-market without compromising our competitive position or product quality. As of December 31, 2006, we employed 52 persons in our product development department. Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our proprietary technology and licensed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have been issued four patents and have eleven patent applications pending. The first issued patent, for a method and system for controlling distribution of software in a multi-tiered distribution chain, expires in April 2016. The second issued patent, for a method and system for detecting fraud in a credit card transaction over the Internet, expires in July 2017. The third issued patent, for a non-extensible thin server that generates user interfaces via browser, expires in April 2018. The fourth issued patent, for a method and system for delivering digital products electronically, expires in November 2017. We have pending patent 7 Table of Contents applications covering cryptography, digital delivery, stored value, electronic gift certificate processing, electronic check processing, and enhancements to our fraud screening and digital delivery systems. We investigate, define and prepare applications for new patents as a part of the standard product development cycle. Our engineering management team meets on a regular basis to harvest new inventions from the engineering department. We cannot assure that any patent application that we file will issue as a patent, and we cannot assure that any patent issued to us will not be held invalid or unenforceable based on prior art or for any other reason. We believe that numerous patent applications relating to the Internet commerce field have been filed or have issued as patents. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we become aware of one or more patents of third parties that we choose to evaluate for a variety of purposes. These purposes may include determining the general contents of patents, reviewing the technological developments of their assignees and determining whether our technology may overlap. We have not conducted searches to determine whether any of our services or technology could be alleged to infringe upon any patent rights of any third party. We cannot assure that none of our products, services, and technology infringes any patent of any third party. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors, potential customers and alliances, and our license agreements with our customers, with respect to our software, services, documentation and other proprietary information, contain confidentiality obligations. Despite these precautions, third parties could reverse engineer, copy or otherwise obtain our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. While we police the use of our services and technology through online monitoring and functions designed into SCMP and our commerce engine, an unauthorized third-party may nevertheless gain unauthorized access to our services or pirate our software. We are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our intellectual property or software exists. Software piracy is a prevalent problem in our industry. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services, or design around any intellectual property rights we hold. See the discussion under Item 3 “Litigation” for further information regarding infringement of our 154 Patent. From time to time we may receive notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ intellectual property rights. As the number of services in our market increases and functionalities overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into licensing agreements. Such licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Operations Our operations department is responsible for the 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year management and support of our global data centers and technology infrastructure. We support and manage the transaction services business with enterprise-class technologies and tools. These technologies and tools are deployed and managed by strict adherence to proven operational principles, processes, and procedures. We believe this technology, the processes, and our employees enable us to deliver the highest level of services and performance to our customers. As of December 31, 2006, we employed 29 persons in our operations department. Customer Support One of CyberSource’s key areas of focus is customer satisfaction. We provide a range of customer implementation and sustaining support services to ensure a high level of performance, reliability, and customer satisfaction for our customers. These services ensure our customers get solutions implemented quickly, as well as provide the support necessary to identify and effectively resolve operational issues. Our offerings range from basic phone support, online ticketing, and self-help to priority response from dedicated technical account managers. The Company’s performance during 2006 was measured by CustomerSat, Inc. through surveys to customers using CyberSource’s hosted suite of payment and risk management services. CyberSource received CustomerSat’s Achievement in Customer Excellence award in November of 2006. As of December 31, 2006 we employed 56 persons in our customer support department. 8 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We target prospective customers worldwide through a direct sales force as well as reseller and referral programs. Our indirect sales channel is divided into “resellers,” “managed commerce providers,” and “referral partners.” We have contractual relationships with these companies that range from referral relationships to reselling our software and services. Resellers: Our resellers provide our software and services as part of their larger offering portfolio and facilitate the sale and billing of our services. Resellers are authorized to sell our hosted services and support services. Our resellers include banks, small business resellers, and payment service providers such as Bank of America, First Data Merchant Services, MIVA, a division of FindWhat.com, Chase Paymentech, as well as a number of smaller partners. Managed Commerce Providers (MCPs): Managed commerce providers typically host customized and turnkey storefronts for online businesses. MCPs manage the entire customer relationship including operations, support, and billing. MCPs include internet service providers, application service providers, and specialized systems integrators. Our MCP partners include AuctionAnything, Accretive Commerce, The Acquity Group, Channel Advisor, Capitol Advantage, ChannelWave, Comergent, Crimson Bow, Escalate, Graphtek, MarketWorks, Radquest, and UniteU. Referral Partners: These are companies with which we have referral agreements, structured with or without monetary incentives. These allies include companies from the payment industry, independent software vendors, integrators and consulting firms. In addition to channel and referral relationships, we pursue both solutions alliances and strategic alliances. These result in cooperative product development efforts, streamlining of integration capabilities and leveraged marketing efforts. Solutions Alliances: These alliances integrate CyberSource technology into some of their products, making it easier for their customers to access CyberSource products and services. These alliances include commerce server vendors, interactive voice response vendors, and enterprise software vendors. Current solutions alliance relationships include: Aspect, ATG, BEA, BroadVision, IBM, Microsoft, PeopleSoft, and Siebel. Strategic Alliances: Our strategic alliances include our relationships with AmeriNet, CheckFree, FDC/Telecheck, I4 Commerce, PayPal, and Visa U.S.A. We work with strategic alliances to enhance our existing solutions portfolio, develop new services and drive the adoption of industry standards. As of December 31, 2006, we employed a total of 63 employees in sales and marketing and an additional 13 professional service consultants. Competition The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary source of competition comes from businesses that develop their own internal, custom-made systems. Such businesses typically make large initial investments to develop custom-made systems and therefore, may be less likely to adopt outside services or vendor-developed online commerce transaction processing software. We face competition from merchant acquirers, independent sales organizations, and payment processors such as iPayment Inc., First Data Corporation, Chase Paymentech, and Royal Bank of Scotland. We also face competition from transaction service providers such as Lightbridge, PayPal, and Retail Decisions as well as e-commerce providers such as Bertelsmann Financial Services, Digital River, and GSI Commerce Inc. Further, other companies, including financial services and credit companies may enter the market and provide competing services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future channel partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products and services through these channels. We expect that competitive pressures may result in the reduction of our prices or our market share or both, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We compete on the basis of certain factors, including: • system and product reliability; • product performance; • domain expertise; • sales channels, operating environments and applications supported; • ease of implementation and integration; • time to market; • customer support; and, • price. Presently, we believe that we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, the market for our solutions is rapidly evolving and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 247 full-time employees, including 76 employees in professional services, sales, and marketing, 52 employees in product development, 85 employees in operations and customer support, and 34 employees in general and administrative services. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we consider employee relations to be good. International Sales Products and services provided to merchants outside the United States accounted for 10.0%, 9.6% and 9.4% of our revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Regulations The following regulations may adversely affect our business now or in the future: • Fair Credit Reporting Act. Because our fraud screening system assesses the probability of fraud in a card-not-present credit card transaction, we may be deemed a consumer reporting agency under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. As a precaution, we have implemented processes that we believe will enable us to comply with the Act if we were deemed a consumer reporting agency. Complying with the Act requires us to provide information about personal data stored by us. Failure to comply with the Act could result in claims being made against us by individual consumers and the Federal Trade Commission. • Export Control Regulations. Current export control regulations prohibit the export of strong encryption technology without a license unless exempt from license requirements, thereby preventing us from using stronger encryption technology to protect the security of data being transmitted to and from Internet merchants outside of the United States. We have obtained a license to use 1024-bit encryption technology with our international merchants. Furthermore, we believe that our products and services fall under certain licensing exemptions as financial products. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein: The Expected Fluctuations of Our Quarterly Results Could Cause Our Stock Price to Fluctuate or Decline We expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. We base our operating expenses on anticipated market growth and our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenues are lower than we expect, our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the following: • changes in the size and number of transactions processed on behalf of customers as a result of seasonality, success of each customer’s business, general economic conditions or regulatory requirements restricting our customers; 10 Table of Contents • our ability to attract new customers and to retain our existing customers; • customer acceptance of new products and services we may offer, including our global acquiring business and the BidPay.com business that we re-launched, and if such businesses are not operated profitably, the write down of intangible assets related to such businesses; • customer acceptance of our pricing model; • customer acceptance of our software and our professional services offerings; • the success of our sales and marketing programs; • an interruption with one or more of our processors, other financial institutions and technology service providers; • seasonality of the retail sector; • changes in accounting rules and regulations; • war or other international conflicts; and • weakness in the general U.S. economy and the lack of available capital for our customers and potential future customers. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results are set forth elsewhere in this section. As a result of these factors, our revenues are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. Due to the uncertainty surrounding our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results should not be relied upon as an indicator of our future performance. Our Stock Price May Fluctuate Substantially Due to Factors Outside Our Control The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors outside our control, including the following: • the announcement of new products, services or enhancements by our competitors; • quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Intense Competition in Our Industry Could Reduce or Eliminate the Demand for Our Products and Services The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition from merchant acquirers, independent sales organizations, and payment processors such as Chase Paymentech Solutions, First Data Corporation, LLC., iPayment Inc., and Royal Bank of Scotland. We also face competition from transaction service providers such as Lightbridge, PayPal, and Retail Decisions as well as e-commerce providers such as Bertelsmann Financial Services, Digital River, and GSI Commerce Inc. Further, other companies, including financial services and credit companies may enter the market and provide competing services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future channel partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products and services through these channels. We expect that competitive pressures may result in the reduction of our prices or our market share or both, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We May Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Our Business Could be Materially and Adversely Affected if We Fail to Adequately Integrate Acquired Businesses As part of our future business strategy, we may pursue strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies that would provide additional product or service offerings, additional industry expertise, a broader client base or an expanded geographic presence. For example, during the first quarter of 2006, we acquired BidPay.com with the view of participating in the payment market for online auctions, an area in which we do not have any experience. If we do not successfully integrate a strategic acquisition, or if the benefits of the transaction do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Any future acquisition could result in the use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have either no or limited prior experiences, such as the payment market for online auctions; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company. Potential System Failures and Lack of Capacity Issues Could Negatively Affect Demand for Our Services Our ability to deliver services to our merchants depends on the uninterrupted operation of our commerce transaction processing systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • “denial of service” attacks; • computer viruses; • war, earthquake, fire, flood and other manmade or natural disasters; and • power loss, telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by employees, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. Despite the fact that we have implemented redundant servers in third-party hosting centers located in Santa Clara, California, and Denver, Colorado, we may still experience service interruptions for the reasons listed above and a variety of other reasons. If our redundant servers are not available, we may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for resulting losses. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. For example, on November 12, 1999, our services were unavailable for approximately ten hours due to an internal system problem. We have also subsequently experienced service interruptions and performance issues. Any interruption in our systems that impairs our ability to efficiently and timely provide services could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Our success also depends on our ability to grow, or scale, our commerce transaction systems to accommodate increases in the volume of traffic on our systems, especially during peak periods of demand. We may not be able to anticipate increases in the use of our systems or successfully expand the capacity of our network infrastructure. Our inability to expand our systems to handle increased traffic could result in system disruptions, slower response times and other difficulties in providing services to our merchant customers, which could materially harm our business. A Breach of Our eCommerce Security Measures Could Reduce Demand for Our Services A requirement of the continued growth of e-Commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on public key cryptography, an encryption method that utilizes two keys, a public and a private key, for encoding and decoding data, and digital certificate technology, or identity verification, to provide the security and authentication necessary for secure transmission of confidential information. Regulatory and export restrictions may prohibit us from using the most secure cryptographic protection available and thereby expose us to an increased risk of data interception. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of security could reduce demand for our services. 12 Table of Contents We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and to address any problems they may cause. Concerns over the security of the Internet and other online transactions and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and the Web in particular, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. BidPay.com May Incur Losses Resulting From User Fraud or Disputes Between Users of Our Service and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Be Successful in This Business BidPay.com has incurred losses, and is subject to future significant risk of losses resulting from fraud and disputes between users of our service including: • the initiation of a chargeback for both legitimate reasons and in cases of consumer fraud; • non-delivery of goods or services due to merchant fraud or disputes regarding the quality of goods or services provided; • identify theft or the unauthorized use of a credit card resulting from consumer or merchant fraud; and • potential breaches of system security. Failure to identify fraudulent transactions or resolve disputes between users would increase BidPay.com’s losses. We have established systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of consumer and merchant fraud, but we cannot assure that these measures are or will be effective. During the fourth quarter of 2006, BidPay.com revenue was approximately $173,000 and generated losses. If BidPay.com’s revenue increases, our potential liability for such chargebacks also would increase. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this business. As of December 31, 2006, we had recorded intangible assets related to our acquisition of BidPay.com in March 2006, with a carrying value of approximately $3.0 million. If we are not successful, we will incur substantial charges as a result of exiting this business. We Could Incur Chargeback or Merchant Fraud Losses We have potential liability for certain transactions processed through our global acquiring services if the payments associated with such transactions are rejected, refused, or returned for reasons such as consumer fraud or billing disputes. For instance, if a billing dispute between a merchant and payer is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction may be charged back to the merchant’s bank and credited to the payer’s account. If the charged back amount cannot be recovered from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable to reimburse its bank for the charged back amount, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the payer’s bank. We could also incur fraud losses as a result of merchant fraud. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, intentionally uses a stolen or counterfeit card, card number, or other bank account number to process a false sales transaction, or knowingly fails to deliver merchandise or services in an otherwise valid transaction. We may be responsible for any losses for certain transactions if we are unable to collect from the merchant. We have established systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of consumer fraud and merchant fraud, but we cannot assure you that these measures are or will be effective. To date, we have not incurred any significant losses relating to charged back transactions. During 2006, our global acquiring revenue represented approximately 36.9% of our transaction and support revenue. Our global acquiring revenue may also include fees generated for gateway services as it is becoming more common to charge the customer a bundled price for transaction services provided. To the extent our global acquiring revenue grows, our potential liability for such chargebacks or merchant fraud increases. If We Are Not Able to Fully Utilize Relationships With Our Sales Alliances, We May Experience Lower Revenue Growth and Higher Operating Costs Our future growth will depend in part on the success of our relationships with existing and future sales alliances that market our products and services to their merchant accounts. If these relationships are not successful or do not develop as quickly as we anticipate, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. Accordingly, we may have to increase our sales and marketing expenses in an attempt to secure additional merchant accounts. 13 Table of Contents Our Market is Subject to Rapid Technological Change and to Compete We Must Continually Enhance Our Systems to Comply with Evolving Standards To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services and the underlying network infrastructure. The Internet and the e-Commerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our merchants, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to merchant requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, merchant requirements or emerging industry standards, our business would be materially harmed. The Demand for Our Products and Services Could Be Negatively Affected by a Reduced Growth of e-Commerce or Delays in the Development of the Internet Infrastructure Sales of goods and services over the Internet do not currently represent a significant portion of overall sales of goods and services. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and customers in the United States and internationally. The sale of goods and services over the Internet has gained acceptance more slowly outside of the United States. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to develop or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. The increase in the significance of the Internet as a commercial marketplace may occur more slowly than anticipated for a number of reasons, including potentially inadequate development of the necessary network infrastructure or delayed development of enabling technologies and performance improvements. If the number of Internet users, or the use of Internet resources by existing users, continues to grow, it may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect. These factors could result in slower response times or adversely affect usage of the Internet, resulting in lower numbers of commerce transactions and lower demand for our products and services. Our International Business Exposes Us to Additional Foreign Risks Products and services provided to merchants outside the United States accounted for 10.0%, 9.6% and 9.4% of our revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In March 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Japanese partners Marubeni Corporation and Trans-Cosmos, Inc. and established CyberSource K.K. to provide commerce transaction services to the Japanese market. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to additional risks that may affect our ability to sell our products and services and result in reduced revenues, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • evolving privacy laws in Europe; • the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • war, political or economic instability or constraints on international trade. In addition, some software contains encryption technology that renders it subject to export restrictions and we may become liable to the extent we violate these restrictions. We might not successfully market, sell and distribute our products and services in local markets and we cannot be certain that one or more of these factors will not materially adversely affect our future international operations, and consequently, our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, sales of our products and services conducted through our subsidiary in the United Kingdom are denominated in Pounds Sterling. We may experience fluctuations in revenues or operating expenses due to fluctuations in the value of the Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar. We do not currently enter into transactions with the specific purpose to hedge against currency exchange fluctuations. Changes in Accounting Standards Regarding Stock Option Plans Will Reduce Our Profitability and Could Limit the Desirability of Granting Stock Options, Which Could Harm Our Ability to Attract and Retain Employees FASB issued its final standard that requires us to record an expense related to employee stock option grants and stock purchases. As a result, we have included employee stock-based compensation costs in our results of operations for the year ended 14 Table of Contents December 31, 2006, as discussed in Note 1 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The full impact is dependent upon, among other things, the outcome of the Company’s current assessment of different long-term incentive strategies involving stock awards in order to continue to attract and retain employees, the total number of stock awards granted and the tax benefit that the Company may or may not receive from stock-based expenses. In addition, new regulations implemented by The NASDAQ Stock Market requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant stock options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. If We Lose Key Personnel, We May Not be Able to Successfully Manage Our Business and Achieve Our Objectives We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our key management personnel, including William S. McKiernan, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key members of management because of their experience and knowledge regarding the development, special opportunities and challenges of our business. None of our current key employees are subject to an employment contract which enables us to retain them for a specific period of time. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining key employees in the future. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Technology and May Be Infringing Upon Third-Party Intellectual Property Rights Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors and potential customers and alliances. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. We also cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that the technology employed in providing our current or future products and services infringe upon their rights. We have not conducted any search to determine whether any of our products and services or technologies may be infringing upon patent rights of third parties. As the number of products and services in our market increases and functionalities increasingly overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. In addition, these claims also might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could absorb significant management time and lead to costly litigation. If required to do so, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us. We May Become Subject to Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties That Would Adversely Affect Our Financial Results We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, export control laws and laws or regulations directly applicable to e-Commerce. However, due to the increasing usage of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet covering issues such as: • taxes; • user privacy; • pricing; • content; • right to access personal data; • copyrights; • distribution; and • characteristics and quality of products and services. For example, we believe that our fraud screen service may require us to comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “Act”). As a precaution, we have implemented processes that we believe will enable us to comply with the Act if we were deemed a consumer reporting agency. Complying with the Act requires us to provide information about personal data stored by us. Failure to comply with the Act could result in claims being made against us by individual consumers and the Federal Trade Commission. 15 Table of Contents Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-Commerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, export or import matters and personal privacy to the Internet is uncertain. The vast majority of laws were adopted prior to the broad commercial use of the Internet and related technologies. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes in the United States regarding taxation and encryption and in the European Union regarding contract formation and privacy, could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace and impose additional costs and other burdens. These uncertainties, costs and burdens could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business due to increased litigation costs or increased service delivery costs. The Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation Could Adversely Affect the Rights of the Holders of Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation may make a change in control more difficult to finalize, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. These provisions may allow our Board of Directors to prevent changes in our management and controlling interests. Under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. One anti-takeover provision that we have is the ability of our Board of Directors to determine the terms of preferred stock and issue preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows the issuance of up to 5,610,969 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2006, there are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion without approval of the holders of the common stock, the rights and preferences of this preferred stock may be superior to those of the common stock. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected. Our Fraud Detection Services and Marketing Agreement With Visa U.S.A. Can Be Terminated In July 2001, we entered into an agreement with Visa U.S.A. to jointly develop and promote the CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen Service Enhanced by Visa for use in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, Visa agreed to promote and market the new product to its member financial institutions and Internet merchants. The agreement expires in July 2007, but can be terminated by either party with ninety days prior written notice. Thereafter, the agreement renews automatically for additional periods of one year, unless terminated by either party. Failure to Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Stock Price Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm addressing these assessments. The threshold for what constitutes a significant deficiency in internal control under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has been set quite low and, during the course of our annual testing, we may find one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be able to remedy any deficiencies we may find in a cost effective manner and in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 