ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein: Risks Related to Our Business Potential system failures and lack of capacity issues could negatively affect demand for our services. Our ability to deliver services to our merchants depends on the uninterrupted operation of our commerce transaction processing systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • “denial of service” attacks; • computer viruses; • war, earthquake, fire, flood and other manmade or natural disasters; and • power loss, telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by employees, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. Despite the fact that we have implemented redundant servers in third-party hosting centers located in San Jose, California; Seattle, Washington; Denver, Colorado; London, England; and Tokyo, Japan, we may still experience service interruptions for the reasons listed above and a variety of other reasons. If our redundant servers are not available, we may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for resulting losses. We have experienced periodic interruptions and performance issues, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. For example, on July 3, 2009, our small business services were unavailable for approximately eleven hours due to a fire and subsequent loss of power at our third-party hosting center in Seattle, Washington. Any interruption in our systems that impairs our ability to efficiently and timely provide services could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our services. In addition, our success also depends on our ability to grow, or scale, our commerce transaction systems to accommodate increases in the volume of traffic on our systems, especially during peak periods of demand. We may not be able to anticipate increases in the use of our systems or successfully expand the capacity of our network infrastructure. Our inability to expand our systems to handle increased traffic could result in system disruptions, slower response times and other difficulties in providing services to our merchant customers, which could materially harm our business. A breach of our eCommerce security measures could reduce demand for our services. A requirement of the continued growth of eCommerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on public key cryptography, an encryption method that utilizes two keys, a public and a private key, for encoding and decoding data, and digital certificate technology, or identity verification, to provide the security and authentication necessary for secure transmission of confidential information. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of security could reduce demand for our services. 13 Table of Contents We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and to address any problems they may cause. Concerns over the security of the Internet and other online transactions and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and the Web in particular, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, fines, or litigation and other liabilities. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. We could incur chargeback or merchant fraud losses that would adversely affect our earnings. We have potential liability for certain transactions processed through our global acquiring services if the payments associated with such transactions are rejected, refused, or returned for reasons such as consumer fraud or billing disputes. For instance, if a billing dispute between a merchant and payer is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction may be charged back to the merchant’s bank and credited to the payer’s account. If the charged back amount cannot be recovered from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable to reimburse its bank for the charged back amount, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the payer’s bank. We could also incur fraud losses as a result of merchant fraud. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, intentionally uses a stolen or counterfeit card, card number, or other bank account number to process a false sales transaction, or knowingly fails to deliver merchandise or services in an otherwise valid transaction. We may be responsible for any losses for certain transactions if we are unable to collect from the merchant. We have established systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of consumer fraud and merchant fraud, but we cannot assure you that these measures are or will be effective. To date, we have not incurred any significant losses relating to chargebacks resulting from consumer fraud or merchant fraud. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, our global acquiring revenue represented approximately 31.6% of our total revenue. Our global acquiring revenue may also include fees generated for gateway services as it is becoming more common to charge the customer a bundled price for transaction services provided. To the extent our global acquiring revenue grows, our potential liability for such chargebacks or merchant fraud increases. Our revenue and customer relationships could be impacted if we were to lose bank sponsorship. The credit card associations require a bank sponsor that ultimately assumes chargeback or merchant fraud losses if we were financially unable to assume such losses. We regularly evaluate bank sponsorship and other relationships with financial institutions. Harris Bank, N.A. currently is our bank sponsor in the United States. Our agreement with Harris Bank renews automatically in March of each year and requires at least 180 days written notice prior to the expiration of any annual term if either party wishes to exercise its right not to renew the agreement. As of the date of this report, we have not received any notice of non-renewal from Harris Bank, N.A. Accordingly, this agreement was renewed automatically in March 2009 and will remain in effect through March 2011, unless the parties mutually agree to terminate the agreement prior to any such expiration or either party exercises its right to terminate the agreement prior to any such expiration based on a material breach by the other party as set forth in the agreement. Outside the United States, we recently signed an agreement with a member bank in Europe to enable our acquiring offerings in certain countries in Europe. If a bank sponsor were to terminate our agreement, and we are not able to obtain another bank sponsor in a timely manner, we would be unable to provide global acquiring services, either whole or in part, which could impact our future revenue and customer relationships. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary technology and may be infringing upon third-party intellectual property rights. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors and potential customers and alliances. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. 14 Table of Contents We also cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that the technology employed in providing our current or future products and services infringe upon their rights. We have not conducted any search to determine whether any of our products and services or technologies may be infringing upon patent rights of third parties. As the number of products and services in our market increases and functionalities increasingly overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. In addition, these claims also might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could absorb significant management time and lead to costly litigation. If required to do so, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us. If we are not able to fully utilize relationships with our sales alliances, we may experience lower revenue growth and higher operating costs. Our future growth will depend in part on the success of our relationships with existing and future sales alliances that market our products and services to their merchant accounts. If these relationships are not successful or do not develop as quickly as we anticipate, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. For example, most of the new customer signups for our Authorize.Net platform come from resellers. To some degree, we compete with these resellers and conflicts may arise between the reseller and our direct sales force. While we believe we have been able to minimize any such conflict, we cannot assure you that conflicts will not increase. Accordingly, we may have to increase our sales and marketing expenses in an attempt to secure additional merchant accounts. If we unexpectedly lose key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain key management personnel and other key members of management because of their experience and knowledge regarding the development, opportunities, and challenges of our business. Disruptions in our senior management team may result in increased attrition of our personnel as new reporting relationships are established and if other companies target our executives. We do not maintain any key-man insurance covering the death or disability of any of our executive officers. While we have an employment contract with Michael A. Walsh, our President and Chief Executive Officer, none of our current key employees are subject to legal obligations that enable us to retain them for a specific period of time. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining key employees in the future. Loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to manage future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the event that we experience rapid growth in our operations, a significant strain may be placed upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our executive officers to manage growth effectively. Our ability to grow also depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees, obtain financing for our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our transactional and management functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we continue to expand our operations, and we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting might adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), the Authorize.Net merger which closed on November 1, 2007 was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price was allocated to Authorize.Net’s net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets or expense for research and development based on their fair values as of November 1, 2007. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill. We currently estimate that we will incur approximately $21.8 million of incremental annual amortization expense relating to the Authorize.Net merger during the year ending December 31, 2010. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets may become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. These amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We may pursue strategic acquisitions and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to adequately integrate acquired businesses. As part of our future business strategy, we may pursue strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies that would provide additional product or service offerings, additional industry expertise, a broader client base or an expanded geographic presence. For example, on November 1, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Authorize.Net. If we do not successfully integrate a strategic acquisition, or if the benefits of the transaction do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Any future acquisition could result in the use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have either no or limited prior experiences; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company. Our international business is subject to additional foreign risks that could harm our business, results, and financial condition. Products and services provided to merchants outside the United States accounted for 7.4% and 6.8% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In March 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Japanese partners Marubeni Corporation and Trans-Cosmos, Inc. and established CyberSource K.K. to provide commerce transaction services to the Japanese market. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to additional risks that may affect our ability to sell our products and services and result in reduced revenues, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • war, political or economic instability or constraints on international trade. In addition, some software contains encryption technology that renders it subject to export restrictions and we may become liable to the extent we violate these restrictions. We might not successfully market, sell or distribute our products and services in local markets and we cannot be certain that one or more of these factors will not materially adversely affect our future international operations, and consequently, our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, sales of our products and services conducted through our subsidiary in the United Kingdom are primarily denominated in Pounds Sterling. We may experience fluctuations in revenues or operating expenses due to fluctuations in the value of the Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar. We do not currently enter into transactions with the specific purpose to hedge against currency exchange fluctuations. Risks Related To Our Industry The intense competition in our industry could reduce or eliminate the demand for our products and services. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition from merchant acquirers, independent sales organizations, and payment processors such as Chase Paymentech, First Data Corporation, and Royal Bank of Scotland. We also face competition from transaction service providers such as PayPal and Retail Decisions as well as eCommerce providers such as Bertelsmann Financial Services, Digital River, and GSI Commerce Inc. Further, other companies, including financial services and credit companies may enter the market and provide competing services. 16 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future channel partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products and services through these channels. We expect that competitive pressures may result in the reduction of our prices or our market share or both, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and to compete we must continually enhance our systems to comply with evolving standards. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services and the underlying network infrastructure. The Internet and the eCommerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our merchants, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to merchant requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, merchant requirements or emerging industry standards, we may be forced to compete in different ways or expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. The demand for our products and services could be negatively affected by a reduced growth of eCommerce or delays in the development of the internet infrastructure. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and customers in the United States and internationally. The sale of goods and services over the Internet has gained acceptance more slowly outside of the United States. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to develop or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. The increase in the significance of the Internet as a commercial marketplace may occur more slowly than anticipated for a number of reasons, including potentially inadequate development of the necessary network infrastructure or delayed development of enabling technologies and performance improvements. If the number of Internet users, or the use of Internet resources by existing users, continues to grow, it may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect. These factors could result in slower response times or adversely affect usage of the Internet, resulting in lower numbers of commerce transactions and lower demand for our products and services. Global economics, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact our revenue and profitability The global electronic payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. The industry also relies in part on the number and size of consumer transactions. A sustained deterioration in the general economic conditions in the United States or globally may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number of as well as the average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease of our revenue and profits. 17 Table of Contents We may become subject to government regulation and legal uncertainties that would adversely affect our operations and financial results. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, export control laws and laws or regulations directly applicable to eCommerce. However, due to the increasing usage of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet covering issues such as: • taxes; • user privacy; • pricing; • content; • right to access personal data; • copyrights; • distribution; and • characteristics and quality of products and services. For example, we believe that our fraud screen service may require us to comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “Act”). As a precaution, we have implemented processes that we believe will enable us to comply with the Act if we were deemed a consumer reporting agency. Complying with the Act requires us to provide information about personal data stored by us. Failure to comply with the Act could result in claims being made against us by individual consumers and the Federal Trade Commission. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for eCommerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, export or import matters and personal privacy to the Internet is uncertain. The vast majority of laws were adopted prior to the broad commercial use of the Internet and related technologies. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes in the United States regarding taxation and encryption and in the European Union regarding contract formation and privacy, could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace and impose additional costs and other burdens. These uncertainties, costs and burdens could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business due to increased litigation costs or increased service delivery costs. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Potential fluctuations of our quarterly results could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. We base our operating expenses on anticipated market growth and our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenues are lower than we expect, our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the following: • changes in the size and number of transactions processed on behalf of customers as a result of seasonality, success of each customer’s business, general economic conditions or regulatory requirements restricting our customers; • our ability to attract new customers and to retain our existing customers; • customer acceptance of new products and services we may offer, including our global acquiring business; • customer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our services; 18 Table of Contents • customer acceptance of our pricing model; • customer acceptance of our software and our professional services offerings; • the success of our sales and marketing programs; • an interruption with one or more of our processors, other financial institutions and technology service providers; • seasonality of the retail sector; • changes in accounting rules and regulations; • changes in federal, state, and local income tax laws; • war or other international conflicts; • weakness in the general United States and global economies and financial markets; and • the lack of available capital for our customers and potential future customers. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results are set forth elsewhere in this section. As a result of these factors, our revenues are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. Due to the uncertainty surrounding our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future performance. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate due to factors outside our control. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and likely will continue to be volatile in response to various factors, some of which are outside our control, including the following: • the announcement of new products, services or enhancements by our competitors; • quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; and • short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and market for technology companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations potentially unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors, as well as general economic, political and financial market conditions may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, including the issuance of authorized preferred stock, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation may make a change in control more difficult to finalize, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. These provisions may allow our Board of Directors to prevent changes in our management and controlling interests. Under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. One anti-takeover provision that we have is the ability of our Board of Directors to determine the terms of preferred stock and issue preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows the issuance of up to 5,610,969 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2009, there are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion without approval of the holders of the common stock, the rights and preferences of this preferred stock may be superior to those of the common stock. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year that remained unresolved. 19 Table of Contents 