ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein: The Expected Fluctuations of Our Quarterly Results Could Cause Our Stock Price to Fluctuate or Decline We expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. We base our operating expenses on anticipated market growth and our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenues are lower than we expect, our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the following: • changes in the size and number of transactions processed on behalf of customers as a result of seasonality, success of each customer’s business, general economic conditions or regulatory requirements restricting our customers; 10 • our ability to attract new customers and to retain our existing customers; • customer acceptance of new products and services we may offer, including our global acquiring business; • the success of our integration of Authorize.Net; • customer acceptance of our pricing model; • customer acceptance of our software and our professional services offerings; • the success of our sales and marketing programs; • an interruption with one or more of our processors, other financial institutions and technology service providers; • seasonality of the retail sector; • changes in accounting rules and regulations; • war or other international conflicts; and • weakness in the general U.S. economy and the lack of available capital for our customers and potential future customers. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results are set forth elsewhere in this section. As a result of these factors, our revenues are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. Due to the uncertainty surrounding our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results should not be relied upon as an indicator of our future performance. We May Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Our Business Could be Materially and Adversely Affected if We Fail to Adequately Integrate Acquired Businesses As part of our future business strategy, we may pursue strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies that would provide additional product or service offerings, additional industry expertise, a broader client base or an expanded geographic presence. For example, on November 1, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Authorize.Net. If we do not successfully integrate a strategic acquisition, or if the benefits of the transaction do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Any future acquisition could result in the use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have either no or limited prior experiences; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company. The size and scope of the Authorize.Net acquisition increases both the scope and consequence of these ongoing integration risks. Even if the acquisition is successfully integrated, we may not receive all of the expected benefits of the transaction. We May Fail to Realize all of the Anticipated Benefits of the Authorize.Net Merger, Which Could Adversely Affect the Value of Our Common Stock After the Merger The Authorize.Net merger involves the integration of two former companies that have previously operated independently. We anticipate that the merger will create opportunities to achieve cost savings and revenue synergies, to share technological developments and to achieve other synergistic benefits. The success of the Authorize.Net merger will depend, in part, on our ability to achieve the anticipated cost synergies and other strategic benefits from combining the businesses of the two former companies. We expect the combined company to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine the businesses of the two former companies. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated cost synergies and other strategic benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction in the amounts and times projected for a number of reasons, 11 including that the integration may take longer than anticipated, be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to the two former companies’ existing businesses. Potential Customer, Merchant and Employee Uncertainty Related to the Authorize.Net Merger Could Harm the Combined Company The potential customers of the combined company may, in response to the Authorize.Net merger, determine not to purchase services from us. Any such determinations not to purchase by our customers could seriously harm our business. Similarly, our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role following the combination. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, marketing, sales, customer support and technical personnel, which could harm us. Furthermore, certain former Authorize.Net resellers may deem us to be a competitor because we offer merchant acquiring services that may overlap with services offered by certain resellers. If We are Not Successful in Integrating the Authorize.Net Business and Organization, the Anticipated Benefits of the Merger May Not be Realized Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Authorize.Net merger will depend, in part, on the integration of technology, operations and personnel of the two former companies. We cannot assure you that the integration will be successful or that the anticipated benefits of the merger will be fully realized. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • persuading the employees that the two former companies’ business cultures are compatible and retaining the combined company’s key personnel; • maintaining the dedication of management resources to integration activities without diverting attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company; • maintaining management’s ability to focus on anticipating, responding to or utilizing changing technologies in the electronic payment industry; • maintaining former Authorize.Net’s key reseller relationships; • demonstrating to customers that the merger has not resulted in adverse changes to the ability of the combined company to address the needs of customers of the loss of attention or business focus; • integrating the Utah and Washington offices of Authorize.Net into our corporate structure; • keeping existing independent sales organization channels intact; and • keeping and retaining key former Authorize.Net employees. It is not certain that the two companies can be successfully integrated in a timely manner or at all or that any of the anticipated benefits will be realized. In addition, we cannot assure you that there will not be substantial unanticipated costs associated with the integration process, that integration activities will not result in a decrease in revenues, a decrease in the value of our common stock, or that there will not be other material adverse effects from our integration efforts. If we are unable to successfully integrate Authorize.Net, or if the benefits of the merger do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Loss of Key Personnel Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Business and Results of Operations of the Combined Company Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees of both legacy CyberSource and legacy Authorize.Net. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees. Loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We Face Uncertainties Related to the Effectiveness of Internal Controls Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent 12 limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will achieve its stated goal under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Although our management has determined that our internal controls were effective as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, there can be no assurance that the integration of Authorize.Net and its internal control systems and procedures, will not result in or lead to a future material weakness in our internal controls, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would require management and the Company’s independent public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Failure to Manage Future Growth Effectively May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations In the event that we experience rapid growth in our operations, a significant strain may be placed upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our executive officers to manage growth effectively. Our ability to grow also depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees, obtain financing for our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our transactional and management functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we integrate and continue to expand our operations, and we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Charges to Earnings Resulting From the Application of the Purchase Method of Accounting Might Adversely Affect the Market Value of Our Common Stock In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), the Authorize.Net merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price was allocated to Authorize.Net’s net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets or expense for research and development based on their fair values as of November 1, 2007. Any excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. We will incur additional amortization expense based on the identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired pursuant to the merger agreement and their relative useful lives. Additionally, to the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets may become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. These amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. We currently estimate that we will initially incur approximately $29 million of incremental annual amortization expense. Changes in earnings per share, including as a result of this incremental expense, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our Stock Price May Fluctuate Substantially Due to Factors Outside Our Control The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors outside our control, including the following: • the announcement of new products, services or enhancements by our competitors; • quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. 13 These factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Intense Competition in Our Industry Could Reduce or Eliminate the Demand for Our Products and Services The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition from merchant acquirers, independent sales organizations, and payment processors such as Chase Paymentech Solutions, First Data Corporation, iPayment Inc., and Royal Bank of Scotland. We also face competition from transaction service providers such as PayPal and Retail Decisions as well as eCommerce providers such as Bertelsmann Financial Services, Digital River, and GSI Commerce Inc. Further, other companies, including financial services and credit companies may enter the market and provide competing services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future channel partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products and services through these channels. We expect that competitive pressures may result in the reduction of our prices or our market share or both, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Potential System Failures and Lack of Capacity Issues Could Negatively Affect Demand for Our Services Our ability to deliver services to our merchants depends on the uninterrupted operation of our commerce transaction processing systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • “denial of service” attacks; • computer viruses; • war, earthquake, fire, flood and other manmade or natural disasters; and • power loss, telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by employees, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. Despite the fact that we have implemented redundant servers in third-party hosting centers located in San Jose California, Seattle Washington, Denver Colorado, Phoenix Arizona, London England and Tokyo Japan, we may still experience service interruptions for the reasons listed above and a variety of other reasons. If our redundant servers are not available, we may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for resulting losses. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. For example, on November 12, 1999, our services were unavailable for approximately ten hours due to an internal system problem. We have also subsequently experienced service interruptions and performance issues. Any interruption in our systems that impairs our ability to efficiently and timely provide services could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Our success also depends on our ability to grow, or scale, our commerce transaction systems to accommodate increases in the volume of traffic on our systems, especially during peak periods of demand. We may not be able to anticipate increases in the use of our systems or successfully expand the capacity of our network infrastructure. Our inability to expand our systems to handle increased traffic could result in system disruptions, slower response times and other difficulties in providing services to our merchant customers, which could materially harm our business. A Breach of Our eCommerce Security Measures Could Reduce Demand for Our Services A requirement of the continued growth of e-Commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on public key cryptography, an encryption method that utilizes two keys, a public and a private key, for encoding and decoding data, and digital certificate technology, or identity verification, to provide the security and authentication 14 necessary for secure transmission of confidential information. Regulatory and export restrictions may prohibit us from using the most secure cryptographic protection available and thereby expose us to an increased risk of data interception. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of security could reduce demand for our services. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and to address any problems they may cause. Concerns over the security of the Internet and other online transactions and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and the Web in particular, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. We Could Incur Chargeback or Merchant Fraud Losses We have potential liability for certain transactions processed through our global acquiring services if the payments associated with such transactions are rejected, refused, or returned for reasons such as consumer fraud or billing disputes. For instance, if a billing dispute between a merchant and payer is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction may be charged back to the merchant’s bank and credited to the payer’s account. If the charged back amount cannot be recovered from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable to reimburse its bank for the charged back amount, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the payer’s bank. We could also incur fraud losses as a result of merchant fraud. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, intentionally uses a stolen or counterfeit card, card number, or other bank account number to process a false sales transaction, or knowingly fails to deliver merchandise or services in an otherwise valid transaction. We may be responsible for any losses for certain transactions if we are unable to collect from the merchant. We have established systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of consumer fraud and merchant fraud, but we cannot assure you that these measures are or will be effective. To date, we have not incurred any significant losses relating to charged back transactions. During 2007, our global acquiring revenue represented approximately 39.2% of our total revenue. Our global acquiring revenue may also include fees generated for gateway services as it is becoming more common to charge the customer a bundled price for transaction services provided. To the extent our global acquiring revenue grows, our potential liability for such chargebacks or merchant fraud increases. Our Revenue and Customer Relationships Could be Impacted if We Were to Lose Bank Sponsorship The card associations require a bank sponsor that ultimately assumes chargeback or merchant fraud losses if we were financially unable to assume such losses. If our current bank sponsor were to terminate our agreement, we would be unable to provide global acquiring services, which could impact our future revenue and customer relationships. If We Are Not Able to Fully Utilize Relationships With Our Sales Alliances, We May Experience Lower Revenue Growth and Higher Operating Costs Our future growth will depend in part on the success of our relationships with existing and future sales alliances that market our products and services to their merchant accounts. If these relationships are not successful or do not develop as quickly as we anticipate, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. Accordingly, we may have to increase our sales and marketing expenses in an attempt to secure additional merchant accounts. Our Market is Subject to Rapid Technological Change and to Compete We Must Continually Enhance Our Systems to Comply with Evolving Standards To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services and the underlying network infrastructure. The Internet and the e-Commerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our merchants, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to 15 merchant requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, merchant requirements or emerging industry standards, our business would be materially harmed. The Demand for Our Products and Services Could Be Negatively Affected by a Reduced Growth of e-Commerce or Delays in the Development of the Internet Infrastructure Sales of goods and services over the Internet do not currently represent a significant portion of overall sales of goods and services. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and customers in the United States and internationally. The sale of goods and services over the Internet has gained acceptance more slowly outside of the United States. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to develop or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. The increase in the significance of the Internet as a commercial marketplace may occur more slowly than anticipated for a number of reasons, including potentially inadequate development of the necessary network infrastructure or delayed development of enabling technologies and performance improvements. If the number of Internet users, or the use of Internet resources by existing users, continues to grow, it may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect. These factors could result in slower response times or adversely affect usage of the Internet, resulting in lower numbers of commerce transactions and lower demand for our products and services. Our International Business Exposes Us to Additional Foreign Risks Products and services provided to merchants outside the United States accounted for 8.7%, 10.0%, and 9.6% of our revenues in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. In March 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Japanese partners Marubeni Corporation and Trans-Cosmos, Inc. and established CyberSource K.K. to provide commerce transaction services to the Japanese market. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to additional risks that may affect our ability to sell our products and services and result in reduced revenues, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • evolving privacy laws in Europe; • the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • war, political or economic instability or constraints on international trade. In addition, some software contains encryption technology that renders it subject to export restrictions and we may become liable to the extent we violate these restrictions. We might not successfully market, sell or distribute our products and services in local markets and we cannot be certain that one or more of these factors will not materially adversely affect our future international operations, and consequently, our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, sales of our products and services conducted through our subsidiary in the United Kingdom are primarily denominated in Pounds Sterling. We may experience fluctuations in revenues or operating expenses due to fluctuations in the value of the Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar. We do not currently enter into transactions with the specific purpose to hedge against currency exchange fluctuations. Changes in Accounting Standards Regarding Stock Option Plans Will Reduce Our Profitability and Could Limit the Desirability of Granting Stock Options, Which Could Harm Our Ability to Attract and Retain Employees We have included employee stock-based compensation costs in our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, as discussed in Note 1 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The full impact is dependent upon, among other things, the outcome of our current assessment of different long-term incentive strategies involving stock awards in order to continue to attract and retain employees, the total number of stock awards granted and the tax benefit that we may or may not receive from stock-based expenses. In addition, new regulations implemented by The Nasdaq Stock Market requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant stock options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. 16 If We Lose Key Personnel, We May Not be Able to Successfully Manage Our Business and Achieve Our Objectives We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our key management personnel, including William S. McKiernan, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key members of management because of their experience and knowledge regarding the development, special opportunities and challenges of our business. None of our current key employees are subject to an employment contract which enables us to retain them for a specific period of time. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining key employees in the future. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Technology and May Be Infringing Upon Third-Party Intellectual Property Rights Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors and potential customers and alliances. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. We also cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that the technology employed in providing our current or future products and services infringe upon their rights. We have not conducted any search to determine whether any of our products and services or technologies may be infringing upon patent rights of third parties. As the number of products and services in our market increases and functionalities increasingly overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. In addition, these claims also might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could absorb significant management time and lead to costly litigation. If required to do so, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us. We May Become Subject to Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties That Would Adversely Affect Our Financial Results We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, export control laws and laws or regulations directly applicable to e-Commerce. However, due to the increasing usage of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet covering issues such as: • taxes; • user privacy; • pricing; • content; • right to access personal data; • copyrights; • distribution; and • characteristics and quality of products and services. For example, we believe that our fraud screen service may require us to comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “Act”). As a precaution, we have implemented processes that we believe will enable us to comply with the Act if we were deemed a consumer reporting agency. Complying with the Act requires us to provide information about personal data stored by us. Failure to comply with the Act could result in claims being made against us by individual consumers and the Federal Trade Commission. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-Commerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. 17 The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, export or import matters and personal privacy to the Internet is uncertain. The vast majority of laws were adopted prior to the broad commercial use of the Internet and related technologies. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes in the United States regarding taxation and encryption and in the European Union regarding contract formation and privacy, could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace and impose additional costs and other burdens. These uncertainties, costs and burdens could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business due to increased litigation costs or increased service delivery costs. The Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation Could Adversely Affect the Rights of the Holders of Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation may make a change in control more difficult to finalize, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. These provisions may allow our Board of Directors to prevent changes in our management and controlling interests. Under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. One anti-takeover provision that we have is the ability of our Board of Directors to determine the terms of preferred stock and issue preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows the issuance of up to 5,610,969 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2007, there are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion without approval of the holders of the common stock, the rights and preferences of this preferred stock may be superior to those of the common stock. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected. Our Fraud Detection Services and Marketing Agreement With Visa U.S.A. Can Be Terminated In July 2001, we entered into an agreement with Visa U.S.A. to jointly develop and promote the CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen Service Enhanced by Visa for use in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, Visa agreed to promote and market the new product to its member financial institutions and Internet merchants. The agreement expires in July 2008, but can be terminated by either party with ninety days prior written notice. Thereafter, the agreement renews automatically for additional periods of one year, unless terminated by either party. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 