Item 1A. Risk Factors The most significant risk factors related to the Company’s business are as follows: 1. The Company’s future results are subject to fluctuations in the price of raw materials. The principal raw materials used to produce our products are steel, copper and aluminum. The prices of those raw materials are susceptible to significant fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, price controls, economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances. If the Company is unable to mitigate raw materials price increases through product design improvements, price increases to its customers, and hedging transactions, future profitability could be adversely affected. - 5 - Table of Contents 2. The Company’s future results may be impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic conditions. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond its control, such as an economic downturn in a specific country or region, or in the various industries the Company serves; social or political conditions in a specific country or region; or potential adverse changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. 3. The Company’s results are affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences. The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified company’s and have substantially greater financial resources. Demand for the Company’s products may be affected by the Company’s ability to introduce new, redesigned, and customized products to meet changing customer expectations and requirements; the Company’s ability to respond timely to downward pricing pressure to stay competitive; and changes in customer order patterns. 4. The Company’s future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings, including those involving product liability, antitrust, environmental or other matters. The Company from time to time is party to legal and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business. The outcome of legal proceedings could differ from the Company’s expectations since the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are sometimes difficult to predict. As a result, the Company could be required to change current estimates of liabilities as litigation matters develop. Changes in these estimates could have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. 5. The Company’s total assets include goodwill. If the Company determines that goodwill has become impaired in the future, net income could be adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. The Company reviews goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial results. 6. The Company’s future results may be affected by environmental, health and safety laws, and regulations. The Company is subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and has incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with those regulations. Failure to comply with certain regulations could subject the Company to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production. In addition the Company incurs, in the normal course of business, various remediation expenses related to its manufacturing sites, none of which is expected to be material. If remediation obligations were to increase beyond the Company’s expectations or if the Company incurred fines, penalties, or suspension of production, future results could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. - 6 - Table of Contents 