Item 1A. Risk Factors The most significant risk factors related to Baldor’s business are as follows: Our future results are subject to fluctuations in the price of raw materials. The principal raw materials used to produce our electric motors are steel, copper and aluminum. The prices of those raw materials are susceptible to significant fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, price controls, economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances. If we are unable to mitigate raw materials price increases through product design improvements, price increases to our customers, and hedging transactions, future profitability could be adversely affected. Our future results may be impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic conditions. Our business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond our control, such as an economic downturn in a specific country or region, or in the various industries we serve; social or political conditions in a specific country or region; or potential adverse changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our financial results may be affected by competitive conditions. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified companies and have substantially greater financial resources. Demand for our products may be affected by our ability to respond to downward pricing pressure, to continue to provide shorter lead time and quicker delivery of our products than our competitors, and to respond to changes in customer order patterns. Our success depends both on our ability to continue developing new and improved products in line with technological advancements that meet the evolving requirements of our customers, and our ability to bring these products rapidly to market. New products, or refinements and improvements of existing products, may have technical failures, their introduction may be delayed, they may have higher production costs than originally expected or they may not be accepted by our customers. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. We rely on independent distributors and the loss of these distributors would adversely affect our business. In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our customers. We are supported by an extensive distribution network, with over 10,000 distributor locations worldwide. Rather than serving as passive conduits for delivery of product, our industrial distributors are active participants in the overall competitive dynamics in our industry. Industrial distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are stocked, and therefore are readily accessible to end-users, and the price at which our products are sold. During the years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006, and December 31, 2005, the portion of domestic net sales generated through distributors amounted to approximately 49%, 48%, and 50%, respectively. Most of the distributors with whom we transact business also offer products and services of our competitors to our customers. In addition, the distribution agreements we have are typically not exclusive and are cancelable by the distributor after a short notice period. Impairment of our relationship with our distributors, loss of a substantial number of these distributors, or an increase in distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to our customers could materially reduce our sales and profits. We are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States. Future growth rates and success of our business depend in part on continued growth in our non-U.S. operations. We have both sales and manufacturing operations outside the United States. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in local governmental laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment - 9 - Table of Contents regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. International transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with U.S. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. While these factors and the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Prior to Baldor’s acquisition of Reliance, Rockwell disclosed potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) in connection with certain of Reliance’s foreign operations. We have been indemnified by Rockwell against government penalties arising from these potential violations, but this indemnification is subject to limitations and there can be no assurance that Rockwell will be able to pay on the indemnity at the time we make a claim against the indemnity. Our foreign operations may be adversely affected by the change in business practices made necessary by the FCPA. In addition, prior to Baldor’s acquisition of Reliance, Rockwell disclosed potential violations by Reliance of the U.S. Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”.) Rockwell is not required to indemnify Baldor for these potential violations and if violations are found to have occurred, we may be subject to fines, penalties, other costs, loss of ability to do business with the U.S. government or other business related impacts which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture, which could result in us having to expend significant time and expense to defend these claims and to pay material claims or settlement amounts. We face a risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage; however, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects or our ability to make payments under our debt obligations when due. In addition, we believe our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. In the event that our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products, which would reduce our sales and profitability. Our future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. From time to time, we are party to legal and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business. We have been named as defendants in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos. The outcome of legal proceedings could differ from our expectations since the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, and our ability to collect from our insurers or on indemnities from third parties, are sometimes difficult to predict. As a result, we could be required to change current estimates of liabilities as litigation matters develop. Changes in these estimates or changes in our business as a result of legal and regulatory proceedings could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our total assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles. If we determine these have become impaired in the future, net income could be adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Indefinite-lived intangibles are comprised of trademarks. At December 29, 2007, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles totaled $1,378.5 million, most of which arose from our acquisition of Reliance. We review goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. - 10 - Table of Contents Our future results may be affected by environmental, health and safety laws, and regulations. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with those regulations. Failure to comply with certain regulations could subject us to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production. In addition, we incur, in the normal course of business, various remediation expenses related to our manufacturing sites, none of which is expected to be material. If remediation obligations were to increase beyond our expectations or if we incurred fines, penalties, or suspension of production, future results could be adversely affected. Prior to Baldor’s acquisition of Reliance, Reliance had been named as a potentially responsible party at environmental clean-up sites, and may be so named in the future as well and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. We have been indemnified by Rockwell against environmental liabilities relating to certain properties that had been formerly owned or operated by Reliance but this indemnification is subject to limitations and there can be no assurance that Rockwell will be able to pay on the indemnity at the time we make a claim against the indemnity. Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure and failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. The inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business and our customers. We own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. The loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. In addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We sometimes provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. Indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could have an adverse effect on our business. Our balance sheet includes significant long-term debt. If we are unable to service our debt and meet financial covenants, we could be adversely affected. We substantially increased our leverage to finance the acquisition of Reliance. In January 2007, we borrowed $1.6 billion under a new senior secured credit facility and a new senior note agreement. The increased indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or fund capital expenditure or working capital needs because we will require additional funds to service our indebtedness. In addition, financial and other covenants related to the financing will limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not waived or cured, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness. - 11 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 