Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our consolidated financial statements, related Notes, and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview CyberSource Corporation (“CyberSource” or the “Company”) is a leading provider of electronic payment and risk management solutions. Our solutions enable electronic payment processing for Web, call center, and point-of-sale environments. We partner with and connect to a large network of payment processors and other payment service providers to offer merchants a single source solution that simplifies electronic payment management. Our payment solutions allow eCommerce merchants to accept a wide range of online payment options, from credit cards and electronic checks, to global payment options and emerging payment types. We also offer industry leading risk management solutions to help online merchants address complexities such as credit card fraud, online tax requirements, and export controls. CyberSource Professional Services help to design, integrate, and optimize commerce transaction processing systems for merchants. Approximately 253,000 businesses use our solutions, including half the companies comprising the Dow Jones Industrial Average. In 2008, we processed approximately 1.9 billion transactions, a 54% increase over 2007. The dollar value of all credit card authorization requests we processed in 2008 exceeded $109 billion, a 102% increase over 2007. CyberSource Corporation was founded in 1994 and initially launched as software.net, an online software store that built payment processing solutions to support its sales. In 1997, the payment processing solutions business was spun-off from software.net to form a separate corporation initially named, Internet Commerce Services Corporation. Internet Commerce Services Corporation later changed its name to CyberSource Corporation and continues to operate today under that name. Our headquarters is located at 1295 Charleston Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and we have sales, service, and development offices in Japan, the United Kingdom, and other locations in the United States including Bellevue, Washington, American Fork, Utah and Austin, Texas. We maintain a website at www.cybersource.com. The reference to this website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Accordingly, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers filed electronically. We also maintain a website at www.cybersource .com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our website, www.cybersource.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. Market Characteristics In 2008, JPMorgan estimated the US online eCommerce market related to retail sales and travel to be $317.4 billion, with a three year compounded annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 8% from 2008 to 2011. eCommerce in Europe has grown to $284.9 billion in 2008, with a CAGR over three years of 11% from 2008 to 2011. For the fourth quarter of 2008, the U.S. Census Bureau estimated that online sales of U.S. retailers comprised 3.8% of total U.S. retail sales, up from 3.6% in the fourth quarter of 2007. For 2008, the U.S. Census Bureau data shows the annual growth rate of online sales of U.S. retailers was 4.6%, versus an overall retail sales decrease of 0.6% for the same time period. As the online eCommerce market continues to grow, selling online has become a strategic business strategy for many organizations. Although credit cards have long been the dominant payment method available to online purchasers, alternative consumer payment options and cultural preferences have impacted the global payment environment. A wide spectrum of payment options, such as debit cards, electronic checks, and alternative online payment options such as Bill Me Later ® and PayPal ® are emerging worldwide. Since 2005, we have experienced a noticeable trend among some of our large U.S. customers that are seeking greater access into international markets, especially Europe and China. Conducting online commerce internationally involves supporting more payment types, currency conversions, new payment processors, and mitigating higher fraud risk. Online fraud has evolved into an organized and systemic threat to online merchants. The latest “CyberSource Fraud Survey,” sponsored by CyberSource and conducted by Mindwave Research in October 2008, concluded that dollar losses from eCommerce fraud continue to grow, diverting approximately $4.0 billion from eCommerce in 2008, an 8% increase over 2007. 3 Table of Contents According to the survey, the percent of revenue that merchants say they lost to fraud remained stable at 1.4% in 2007 and 2008, but because eCommerce sales continued to grow, dollar losses to eCommerce grew proportionately. Merchants are increasing the number of fraud detection tools they use to manage payment fraud risk. Merchants showed a sharp increase in interest for more sophisticated automation tools which can provide an assessment of the fraud potential of a transaction and can reduce reliance on human involvement. In June 2005 in the U.S., Visa and MasterCard began requiring compliance with a comprehensive security requirement called the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI”) to limit the threat of cardholder information theft. With the challenge of becoming PCI compliant, some merchants engage us to manage sensitive customer information such as credit card numbers and related transaction data. For merchants that subscribe to Secure Storage or Hosted Payment Acceptance services, we handle and store all payment data on behalf of the merchants in PCI certified processing centers that connect directly with the banking network. We are evaluated annually for PCI compliance, and both the enterprise and small business divisions have been separately verified as compliant for 2008-2009. Furthermore, security and card association standards require quarterly security scans, which have been conducted. Additionally, we conduct quarterly threat assessment tests and employ rigorous security measures to prevent unauthorized access or security breaches. Online merchants are also focusing on meeting regulatory requirements in areas such as collection of sales taxes. European Union directives require that all online sellers of digital goods collect the applicable value-added tax for sales in the European Union. The impact of these trends is that electronic payment management is becoming more complex. Online merchants must maintain technical and financial connections with a number of different payment processors and service providers, integrate these disparate connections with a number of internal business systems, allocate manual resources to keep pace with the growth of online sales, and comply with statutory and card association requirements. We enable our customers to meet these requirements simply and cost effectively with our electronic payment and risk management solutions. CyberSource Customers Our customers range in size from small sole proprietorships to some of the world’s largest corporations and institutions. Our customer base includes leading companies such as Air France, Borders Group, British Airways, Christian Dior, Eastman Kodak, Home Depot, Louis Vuitton, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Microsoft, Nike, Starbucks, and Yahoo!, among thousands of others. To properly serve this diverse set of needs, we divide our potential market into two customer profiles, enterprise and small business merchants, which require different solutions. Enterprise merchants have high sales volumes and generally demand the greatest range of payment options and the most sophisticated risk and management tools. These customers often sell in multiple countries and require support for local currencies and local payment options. Enterprise merchants also frequently need to integrate payment processing with one or more internal business systems. We serve enterprise customers by providing solutions that address and simplify the breadth of these requirements. Smaller business merchants generally seek simplicity and ease of use. We serve small merchants by providing bundled services and integrations into popular online shopping cart software, while bringing to the small business market some of the advantages of our enterprise-level services, including important new payment options such as electronic checks, as well as high-reliability and quality customer support. In 2008, we did not have any single customer that was responsible for ten percent or more of our revenues. CyberSource Products and Services CyberSource Payment Solutions CyberSource Advanced For the enterprise customer, we offer a comprehensive set of payment, fraud management and payment security products and services called CyberSource Advanced. Requirements of these larger merchants typically include acceptance of all major credit and debit cards, the ability to bill customers at regular monthly intervals, support for international payment options, sophisticated fraud management tools and systems, and tools to automate payment reconciliation and other internal processes to reduce the administrative costs and burdens of accepting online orders. CyberSource Advanced enables merchants to accept payments made by all major credit and debit cards including American Express®, Discover®, Diners Club International®, JCB, MasterCard®, and Visa® cards. Our customers can also accept payment by corporate procurement cards, electronic checks, PayPal® Express Checkout, and the Bill Me Later® service. Merchants that have business models based on subscriptions can utilize the CyberSource recurring billing service. For merchants selling internationally, we support direct debit, and bank transfers, as well as regional card brands such as Carte Bleue, Carta Si, Dankort, Laser, Solo, and Visa Electron. 4 Table of Contents Authorize.Net Targeted towards small and medium-sized merchants with under $3 million in annual sales, Authorize.Net enables merchants to authorize, settle, and manage credit card and electronic check payments via Web sites, retail stores, mail order/telephone order (“MOTO”) call centers and mobile devices. Merchants can accept a variety of payments including all major credit cards as well as electronic checks. Electronic checks are processed using Authorize.Net’s eCheck.Net® service, which allows merchants to process electronic check transactions directly from a website or through the Virtual Terminal. Authorize.Net also certifies numerous third-party point-of-sale solutions or devices that are integrated to the Authorize.Net payment gateway. Standard services include credit card processing, card code verification, which includes CVV, CVV2, and CID, Address Verification Service (“AVS”), Virtual Terminal, Verified Merchant Seal, Virtual Point of Sale (“VPOS”) as well as extensive reporting, and QuickBooks® compatibility. Premium value-adding services include eCheck.Net® electronic check processing service, Automated Recurring Billing™ service for subscription payments, Fraud Detection Suite™ service, and secure storage of customers’ transaction data through the Customer Information Manager service. These services are integrated into the Authorize.Net platform, providing merchants with the ability to adapt their payment solution to the merchant’s payment needs. The Authorize.Net Merchant Toolbox features partners that provide discounts on marketing, security, business productivity and accounting solutions for merchants. The Authorize.Net Verified Merchant Seal confirms to consumers that websites displaying the seal are verified Authorize.Net merchants. CyberSource Global Acquiring (Merchant Account Services) We underwrite merchants to enable them to accept card payments within the United States, as well as accept and process major and regional payment types worldwide. We interface with payment systems on behalf of the merchant to authorize the payment presented by a merchant’s customer, collect funds from their customer’s bank, and deposit the funds into the merchant’s designated checking account. These services are available as a bundled offering with all of our payment solution packages and software. Tax Calculation Online organizations often require tools to facilitate tax payment and export regulatory compliance. The CyberSource Tax Service calculates sales and use taxes for over 13,000 U.S. tax jurisdictions, 44,000 sales, seller’s use, consumer’s use, and rental rates, and supports value added tax calculation, as applicable, in the U.S., Canada, Latin America, Europe and the Asia Pacific. CyberSource Risk & Security Management Solutions The CyberSource suite of modular and scalable services is designed to help merchants address the growing challenge of online fraud and management of PCI compliance. Our solutions can be implemented as a single component or as fully-integrated systems, and can be managed in-house, outsourced, or constructed as a blend of both. In most cases, our risk and payment security solutions can be implemented with payment services provided by us or other providers. CyberSource Decision Manager CyberSource Decision Manager is a hosted rules and case management system that allows business managers to create screening rules to automatically route orders for acceptance, rejection, or review). Built-in case management systems include a portal to over 150 global validation services and tests. The system includes an interface to our risk scoring service as well as other external services such as device fingerprinting and the merchant’s own data, and reports to help businesses manage operations. Fraud Detection/Verification Tools CyberSource Decision Manager includes access to CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen Service enhanced by Visa (“CAFSSEV”), the only risk scoring service endorsed and enhanced by Visa U.S.A, Inc. This service provides fraud risk prediction scores by assessing over 150 order variables such as domestic and international address validation, domestic and international IP address verification, device fingerprinting, and order velocity. The results from CAFSSEV include a numerical risk score as well as risk profile codes indicating the types of risk detected by the system. Through a single connection to CyberSource, our customers can also use card association authentication systems such as Verified by Visa and MasterCard SecureCode. These card programs verify the cardholder’s identity directly with the card issuer in real-time to increase security of payment acceptance. In some markets merchants are required to use these services if they accept Visa and MasterCard payments. 5 Table of Contents Managed Risk Service & Chargeback Recovery Services This service provides analysis, design, modeling and monitoring services to optimize transaction conversion, while minimizing manual review and fraud risk associated with card-not-present transactions. We collaborate with customers to set business metrics, review performance, and provide business tools. Two service plans are available, Performance Monitoring (analysis, design, modeling and monitoring) and Screening Management (all services available in Performance Monitoring plus outsourced management of manual order review on behalf of the merchant). We also offer a Chargeback Recovery Service. Using this service, merchants outsource chargeback re-presentment to us. We review chargebacks received, investigate, and re-present them to the banking system to recover revenue. We share in a percentage of the revenue recovered. Payment Data Management Customers can choose to have us hold sensitive payment data and therefore reduce security risk as well as the cost and complexity of payment security compliance, which we manage using our PCI-certified data centers and Payment Application Data Security Standard certified applications. Secure Storage and Hosted Payment Acceptance allow customers to enhance their payment security by moving sensitive payment data off customers’ systems. Delivery Address Verification and Export Compliance We offer Delivery Address Verification (“DAV”) services to verify the validity of addresses worldwide and comply with the U.S. Postal Service’s requirements, such as bar code and carrier route identification. If an address is incorrect and is found to be correctable, DAV will return a corrected address and identify address elements in error. The CyberSource Export Compliance service helps online merchants comply with U.S. Government export regulations by comparing orders against a changing list of denied countries or persons. Professional Services Building upon our experience in eCommerce, we employ a team of experts that can help merchants operate online businesses. CyberSource Global Services provides business and technical consulting services including technology selection, analysis of impacts of the online business on internal processes, devising merchant-specific risk management strategies, systems installation, integration of our products and services with a merchant’s existing internal systems, building custom reporting tools, disaster recovery planning, system centralization and security consulting. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 16 persons in our Professional Services group. Technology Transaction Services We operate two transaction processing platforms, one for enterprise merchants and one for small business customers. They are a modular architecture designed for scalability, reliability, extensibility and performance. These systems are composed of multiple groups of servers and routers that appear as a single point of contact to our customers’ systems. Our transaction processing systems manage workflow functions and the required communications between our servers, our database, and our processors, including American Express, Barclays Bank, Chase Paymentech Solutions, First Data Corporation, Global Payment Systems, Streamline International (a division of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group), TSYS Acquiring Solutions and others. In addition, we have implemented a global network of telecommunications access points that are designed to optimize transaction processing response times and to mitigate the effects of system failures. The primary software components of our two systems are the respective client software, Order Processing Application Programming Interfaces (“APIs”), commerce services applications, transaction databases and data warehouses. Client Software Our commerce services are invoked by a standardized programming interface residing on our customers’ commerce servers. For our enterprise platform, client software is offered in two protocols, Simple Order Processing API and Simple Commerce Messaging Protocol (“SCMP”), and can be installed by customers using pre-built developer kits and application plug-ins. These developer kits are available for most popular programming environments, including ASP/COM, .NET, Java and others, and for most operating systems, including Windows NT/2000, Linux, and UNIX (Solaris, HP/UX, IBM/AIX and others). Developer kits also come with samples that customers can use to deploy CyberSource services within their enterprises. 6 Table of Contents Simple Order Processing API For our enterprise platform, we offer the CyberSource Simple Order Processing API to enable the secure and reliable communication of order data from our customers’ systems to CyberSource systems. The Simple Order Processing API provides our customers with a way to send invoice data to CyberSource for processing by any of the CyberSource commerce services applications. Using industry standard Web services technologies, including SOAP, XML, and WS Security, the Simple Order Processing API provides customers with an industry recognized implementation path allowing the API to be built into customer order management applications. The API uses the Data Encryption Standard, RSA/public key cryptography and digital certificates to provide secure signed communication of transaction data. We also developed SCMP to enable efficient and secure connections between our systems and our customers’ systems. In order to provide secure messaging, SCMP utilizes industry standards for secure communications including the Data Encryption Standard, RSA/public key cryptography and digital certificates. SCMP has been designed to be integrated into virtually any commerce server platform. For our small business platform, the methods to process transactions through the payment gateway range from Simple Checkout “Buy Now” and “Donate” buttons to fully integrated, highly customizable APIs. Web merchants have the ability to choose which connection method best fits their payment acceptance infrastructure. Connection methods are Advanced Integration Method (“AIM”) and Server Implementation Method (“SIM”). AIM is a merchant-initiated server-to-server connection for submitting transactions to the payment gateway. AIM employs industry standard secure data encryption technology — 128-bit SSL protocol. Additional features include: transaction key authentication, merchant control over all phases of the customer’s online transaction experience, and configurable transaction response that integrate with merchant applications. SIM is a solution for Web merchants with basic customization needs. The Authorize.Net payment gateway handles all the steps in the secure transaction process — payment data collection, data submission and the response to the customer. Additional features of SIM include: a payment gateway hosted payment form employing 128-bit SSL data encryption, transaction digital fingerprints to enhance security, and a customizable payment gateway hosted payment form and/or receipt page. MOTO merchants can submit transactions manually via a secure Web browser using the Virtual Terminal or Batch Upload tool. Retail merchants can process transactions using the Authorize.Net VPOS. Additionally, there are approximately 122 third-party certified products, including shopping carts, kiosks, and mobile and software services that have integrated their eCommerce solution with the small business payment gateway. These integrated services provide merchants with checkout page solutions or hardware and software that are already integrated with the payment processing gateway. Commerce Services Applications We have developed and licensed a set of software applications that perform our hosted services. In many cases, execution of the applications is distributed among the processing systems and database systems, enabling us to minimize interruptions during scheduled maintenance, code pushes, and system modifications. For our enterprise platform, these services include credit card processing, electronic check processing, order decision management, gift and promotional certificates, Bill Me Later payment service, payer authentication, PayPal, CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen enhanced by Visa, tax services, delivery address verification, and export compliance. For our small business platform, these services include eCheck.Net, Automated Recurring Billing, Fraud Detection Suite, Customer Information Manager, and Virtual Point of Sale. Transaction Database Architecture Two primary sets of databases form the core of our transaction processing system: the transaction processing databases, which maintain information necessary to process each individual transaction, and the post-transaction database, which generates and provides detailed information about customers’ transactions, with advanced reporting capabilities available in XML and other formats. Data Centers and Network Access Our data centers are located at facilities in: San Jose, California; Seattle, Washington; Denver, Colorado; Phoenix, Arizona; London, England; and Tokyo, Japan. These secure data center facilities contain our servers, network firewalls, routers and other 7 Table of Contents technology necessary to provide high availability transaction services and connectivity to the Internet, our customers and processing partners. The data centers provide high-speed and redundant network connectivity, uninterruptible power systems, fire detection and suppression systems, physical security and surveillance on a 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year basis. In addition, we have access to numerous network points of presence located on five continents from third party providers, enhancing our ability to serve customers globally. These points of presence, through controlled route announcements to providers such as AboveNet, AT&T, Cable & Wireless, GLBX, Level 3 Communications, Sprint, Telia, UU-NET and Verio enable us to provide what we believe are direct, rapid and reliable access to our suite of services. Industry Standards The implementation of our architecture for hosted services is based on and complies with widely accepted industry standards. For example, our transaction processing systems utilize components from industry leaders such as Cisco, Hewlett Packard, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Red Hat, RSA Data Security, Sun Microsystems and Sybase. Adherence to industry standards provides compatibility with existing applications, ease of modification, and reduces the need for software modules to be rewritten over time, thus protecting our customers’ investments. Product Development Our product development team is responsible for the design, development, and maintenance of our core infrastructure for services. We emphasize quality assurance throughout our development lifecycle. We believe that a strong emphasis placed on analysis and design early in the project lifecycle reduces the number and costs of defects that may be found in later stages. When appropriate, we utilize third parties to expand the capacity and technical expertise of our internal product development organization. On occasion, we have licensed third-party technology that we feel provides the strongest technical alternative. We believe this approach shortens time-to-market without compromising our competitive position or product quality. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 143 persons in our product development department. Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our proprietary technology and licensed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have been issued twenty-seven patents and have forty-three patent applications pending. The issued patents cover much of the technology we employ, including fraud detection, cryptography, digital certificates, stored value services, and digital software distribution. Sixteen of the issued patents were acquired as a result of the Authorize.Net Holdings, Inc. acquisition in November 2007 and cover technology related to telecommunications. We have pending patent applications covering cryptography, order management, digital delivery, stored value services, fraud detection, and digital delivery. We investigate, define, and prepare applications for new patents as a part of the standard product development cycle. We cannot assure that any patent application that we file will issue as a patent, and we cannot assure that any patent issued to us will not be held invalid or unenforceable based on prior art or for any other reason. Some of our technology is designed to include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained at all. We believe that numerous patent applications relating to the Internet commerce field have been filed or have been issued as patents. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may become aware of one or more patents of third parties that we choose to evaluate for a variety of purposes. These purposes may include determining the general contents of patents, reviewing the technological developments of their assignees, and determining whether our technology may overlap. We have not conducted searches to determine whether any of our services or technology could be alleged to infringe upon any patent rights of any third party. We cannot assure that none of our products, services, and technology infringes any patent of any third party. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors, potential customers and alliances: and, our license agreements with our customers, with respect to our software, services, documentation and other proprietary information, contain confidentiality obligations. Despite these precautions, third parties could reverse engineer, copy or otherwise obtain our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. We are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our intellectual property or software exists. Software piracy is a prevalent problem in our industry. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be 8 Table of Contents unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services, or design around any intellectual property rights we hold. See the discussion under Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for further information regarding infringement of our 154 Patent. From time to time we may receive notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ intellectual property rights. As the number of services in our market increases and functionalities overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into licensing agreements. Such licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Service Delivery Our service delivery department is responsible for the management and support of our global data centers and technology infrastructure 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. We support and manage the transaction services business with enterprise-class technologies and tools. These technologies and tools are deployed and managed by strict adherence to proven operational principles, processes, and procedures. We believe this technology, the processes, and our employees enable us to deliver the highest level of services and performance to our customers. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 83 persons in our service delivery department. Customer Support We provide a range of customer implementation and sustaining support services to ensure a high level of performance, reliability, and customer satisfaction for our customers. We believe these services ensure our customers get solutions implemented quickly, as well as provide the support necessary to identify and effectively resolve operational issues. Our offerings include phone support, online ticketing, e-mail, chat, and self-help. Premium support is also offered to our enterprise customers, and includes support from dedicated technical account managers. Our performance during 2008 was measured by CustomerSat, Inc. through surveys to customers using our services. We received CustomerSat’s Achievement in Customer Excellence award in November of 2008 for both Customer Support Satisfaction and Authorize.Net Product and Service Satisfaction. As of December 31, 2008 we employed 156 persons in our customer support department. Sales and Marketing We maintain distinct sales and marketing organizations for our enterprise and small businesses groups. We currently have active partnership relationships with approximately 4,000 e-Commerce Technology Resellers, Processors, Financial Institutions, and Independent Sales Organizations (“ISOs”). Our enterprise sales and marketing department targets prospective customers worldwide through a direct sales force as well as through partners that have established reseller or referral relationships. Our small business sales and marketing department targets prospective small business customers domestically through reseller and referral (“Affiliate Reseller”) relationships, as well as inside sales. Enterprise Resellers: We have contractual relationships with our resellers that allow them to offer and bundle the CyberSource suite of services in conjunction with their solution offering and facilitate the sale and billing of our services. Resellers are authorized to sell our hosted payment services and support services. Our resellers include both banks and payment service providers, such as Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Chase Paymentech, First Data Merchant Services, ISOs, as well as eCommerce technology and infrastructure partners such as PFS Web, The Acuity Group LLC, and TravelClick Inc. Enterprise Referral Partners: These are companies with which we have referral agreements, structured with or without monetary incentives. These allies include companies from the payment industry, independent software vendors, integrators and consulting firms, such as Art Technology Group, Demandware, MarketLive, and Netsuite. Small Business Resellers: We have contractual relationships with our small business resellers that allow them to offer and bundle our small business offering (Authorize.Net) suite of services with an internet or retail-based merchant account. Our small business resellers include both large banks like Wells Fargo, Chase Paymentech, etc. and smaller ISOs and merchant service 9 Table of Contents providers (“MSPs”). Buy rates are provided to each reseller for each of the small business products and services. Resellers access a reseller interface to setup new merchants on the small business platform, set sell rates for each merchant and access reporting information for individual merchants or their entire portfolio. Resellers receive a monthly residual based on the difference between their buy rates and the sell rates they set for each merchant. Small Business Affiliate Resellers: Affiliate resellers are individuals and businesses that have merchant customers, but are not able to provide those merchant customers with payment services. The affiliate refers the merchant to Authorize.Net and we then handle the setup, billing and ongoing support for their payment gateway. Affiliates receive a commission for each referral sale that we close, as well as a portion of the monthly fees and transaction fees generated by each of the merchants. In addition to channel and referral relationships, we pursue both solutions alliances and strategic alliances. These result in cooperative product development efforts, streamlining of integration capabilities and leveraged marketing efforts. These solution alliances integrate our technology into some of their products, making it easier for their customers to access our products and services and include companies such as Oracle (includes PeopleSoft and Siebel). Strategic Alliances: Our strategic alliances include our relationships with PayPal, Trustwave, and Visa U.S.A. We work with strategic alliances to enhance our existing solutions portfolio, develop new services and drive the adoption of industry standards. As of December 31, 2008, we employed a total of 114 employees in sales and marketing and an additional 16 professional service consultants. Competition The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition from merchant acquirers, independent sales organizations, and payment processors such as Chase Paymentech, First Data Corporation, and Royal Bank of Scotland. We also face competition from transaction service providers such as PayPal and Retail Decisions as well as eCommerce providers such as Digital River and GSI Commerce Inc. Furthermore, other companies, including financial services and credit companies may enter the market and provide competing services. Another source of competition comes from businesses that develop their own internal, custom-made systems. Such businesses typically make large initial investments to develop custom-made systems and therefore, may be less likely to adopt outside services or vendor-developed online commerce transaction processing software. We compete on the basis of certain factors, including: • system and product reliability; • product performance; • features and functionality; • outsourced management; • domain expertise; • sales channels, operating environments and applications supported; • ease of implementation and integration; • time to market; • customer support; and, • price. Presently, we believe that we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, the market for our solutions is rapidly evolving and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We expect that competitive pressures may result in the reduction of our prices or our market share or both, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of 614 full-time employees, including 130 employees in professional services, sales and marketing, 143 employees in product development, 239 employees in operations and customer support, and 102 employees in general and administrative services. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we consider employee relations to be good. 10 Table of Contents International Sales Products and services provided to merchants outside the United States accounted for 6.8%, 8.7%, and 10.0% of our revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Regulations The following regulations may adversely affect our business now or in the future: • Fair Credit Reporting Act. Because our fraud screening system assesses the probability of fraud in an online credit card transaction, partly based on analyses of data compiled from our base of customers that use the fraud screening services, we may be deemed a consumer reporting agency under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “FCRA”). As a precaution, we have implemented processes that we believe will enable us to comply with the FCRA if we were deemed a consumer reporting agency. Complying with the FCRA requires us to provide information about personal data stored by us. Failure to comply with the FCRA could result in claims being made against us by individual consumers and the Federal Trade Commission. • Export Control Regulations. Current export control regulations prohibit the export of strong encryption technology without a license unless exempt from license requirements, thereby preventing us from using stronger encryption technology to protect the security of data being transmitted to and from Internet merchants outside of the United States. We have obtained a license to use 2048-bit encryption technology with our international merchants. Furthermore, we believe that our products and services fall under certain licensing exemptions as financial products. • Privacy Laws. Because we receive, transmit, and store certain financial information to facilitate the provision of payment services, which information includes credit card numbers and bank account numbers, we may be subject to various federal and State regulations regarding the protection of personally identifying information. Applicable laws may include, without limitation, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, and various State laws. In the event our systems are compromised by an unauthorized party, many of these privacy laws require that we provide notices to all card and account holders in our databases whose personally identifiable data we reasonably believe may have been compromised. To mitigate the risk of compromised information, we use strong encryption to encrypt card numbers that are stored in our post transaction databases. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein: Risks Related to Our Business Potential system failures and lack of capacity issues could negatively affect demand for our services. Our ability to deliver services to our merchants depends on the uninterrupted operation of our commerce transaction processing systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • “denial of service” attacks; • computer viruses; • war, earthquake, fire, flood and other manmade or natural disasters; and • power loss, telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by employees, physical and electronic break-ins and similar events. Despite the fact that we have implemented redundant servers in third-party hosting centers located in San Jose, California; Seattle, Washington; Denver, Colorado; Phoenix, Arizona; London, England; and Tokyo, Japan, we may still experience service interruptions for the reasons listed above and a variety of other reasons. If our redundant servers are not available, we may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for resulting losses. We have experienced periodic interruptions and performance issues, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. Any interruption in our systems that impairs our ability to efficiently and timely provide services could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our services. 11 Table of Contents In addition, our success also depends on our ability to grow, or scale, our commerce transaction systems to accommodate increases in the volume of traffic on our systems, especially during peak periods of demand. We may not be able to anticipate increases in the use of our systems or successfully expand the capacity of our network infrastructure. Our inability to expand our systems to handle increased traffic could result in system disruptions, slower response times and other difficulties in providing services to our merchant customers, which could materially harm our business. A breach of our eCommerce security measures could reduce demand for our services. A requirement of the continued growth of eCommerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We rely on public key cryptography, an encryption method that utilizes two keys, a public and a private key, for encoding and decoding data, and digital certificate technology, or identity verification, to provide the security and authentication necessary for secure transmission of confidential information. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of security could reduce demand for our services. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and to address any problems they may cause. Concerns over the security of the Internet and other online transactions and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and the Web in particular, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, fines, or litigation and other liabilities. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. We could incur chargeback or merchant fraud losses that would adversely affect our earnings. We have potential liability for certain transactions processed through our global acquiring services if the payments associated with such transactions are rejected, refused, or returned for reasons such as consumer fraud or billing disputes. For instance, if a billing dispute between a merchant and payer is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction may be charged back to the merchant’s bank and credited to the payer’s account. If the charged back amount cannot be recovered from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable to reimburse its bank for the charged back amount, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the payer’s bank. We could also incur fraud losses as a result of merchant fraud. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, intentionally uses a stolen or counterfeit card, card number, or other bank account number to process a false sales transaction, or knowingly fails to deliver merchandise or services in an otherwise valid transaction. We may be responsible for any losses for certain transactions if we are unable to collect from the merchant. We have established systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of consumer fraud and merchant fraud, but we cannot assure you that these measures are or will be effective. To date, we have not incurred any significant losses relating to chargebacks resulting from consumer fraud or merchant fraud. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, our global acquiring revenue represented approximately 34.3% of our total revenue. Our global acquiring revenue may also include fees generated for gateway services as it is becoming more common to charge the customer a bundled price for transaction services provided. To the extent our global acquiring revenue grows, our potential liability for such chargebacks or merchant fraud increases. Our revenue and customer relationships could be impacted if we were to lose bank sponsorship. The credit card associations require a bank sponsor that ultimately assumes chargeback or merchant fraud losses if we were financially unable to assume such losses. Harris Bank, N.A. is our bank sponsor. Our current agreement with Harris Bank renews automatically in March of each year and requires at least 180 days written notice prior to the expiration of any annual term if either party wishes to exercise its right not to renew the agreement. As of the date of this report, we have not received any notice of non-renewal from Harris Bank, N.A. Accordingly, this agreement will renew automatically again in March 2009 and remain in effect through March 2010, unless the parties mutually agree to terminate the agreement prior to any such expiration or either party exercises its right to terminate the agreement prior to any such expiration based on a material breach by the other party as set forth in the agreement. If our current bank sponsor were to terminate our agreement, and we are not able to obtain another bank sponsor in a timely manner, we would be unable to provide global acquiring services, either whole or in part, which could impact our future revenue and customer relationships. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary technology and may be infringing upon third-party intellectual property rights. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors and potential customers and alliances. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. We also cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that the technology employed in providing our current or future products and services infringe upon their rights. We have not conducted any search to determine whether any of our products and services or technologies may be infringing upon patent rights of third parties. As the number of products and services in our market increases and functionalities increasingly overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. In addition, these claims also might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could absorb significant management time and lead to costly litigation. If required to do so, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us. If we are not able to fully utilize relationships with our sales alliances, we may experience lower revenue growth and higher operating costs. Our future growth will depend in part on the success of our relationships with existing and future sales alliances that market our products and services to their merchant accounts. If these relationships are not successful or do not develop as quickly as we anticipate, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. For example, most of the new customer signups for our Authorize.Net platform come from resellers. To some degree, we compete with these resellers and conflicts may arise between the reseller and our direct sales force. While we believe we have been able to minimize any such conflict, we cannot assure you that conflicts will not increase. Accordingly, we may have to increase our sales and marketing expenses in an attempt to secure additional merchant accounts. Our fraud detection services and marketing agreement with Visa U.S.A. can be terminated. In July 2001, we entered into an agreement with Visa U.S.A. to jointly develop and promote the CyberSource Advanced Fraud Screen Service Enhanced by Visa (“CAFSSEV”) for use in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, Visa agreed to promote and market the product to its member financial institutions and Internet merchants. The agreement expires in July 2009, but can be terminated by either party with ninety days prior written notice. Thereafter, the agreement renews automatically for additional periods of one year, unless terminated by either party. In September 2005, we entered into an agreement with Visa Canada for Visa Canada to promote CAFSSEV in Canada . The agreement with Visa Canada expires in September 2009, but can be terminated by either party with ninety days prior written notice. Thereafter, the agreement renews automatically for additional periods of one year, unless terminated by either party. As of the date of this filing, we have not received any notices of non-renewal from either Visa, U.S.A. or Visa Canada. Termination of either agreement will not impact our ability to sell our fraud screening services to our customers. Furthermore, based on the amount of royalties we pay to Visa, U.S.A., we do not believe that termination of the agreement will have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. However, we cannot quantify the marketing value of the relationships with Visa, U.S.A. and Visa Canada, and therefore termination of either agreement or both agreements may adversely impact the marketability of our fraud screening technology. If we lose key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain key management personnel, including William S. McKiernan, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key members of management because of their experience and knowledge regarding the development, opportunities, and challenges of our business. We do not maintain any key-man insurance covering the death or disability of any of our executive officers. While we have employment contract with Scott Cruickshank, our President and Chief Operating Officer, none of our current key employees are subject to legal obligations that enable us to retain them for a specific period of time. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining key 13 Table of Contents employees in the future. For example, in November 2008, Roy Banks, then President of our Authorize.Net subsidiary, resigned. Loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to manage future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the event that we experience rapid growth in our operations, a significant strain may be placed upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our executive officers to manage growth effectively. Our ability to grow also depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees, obtain financing for our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our transactional and management functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we continue to expand our operations, and we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting might adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), the Authorize.Net merger which closed on November 1, 2007 was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price was allocated to Authorize.Net’s net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets or expense for research and development based on their fair values as of November 1, 2007. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill. We will incur additional amortization expense based on the identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired and their relative useful lives. Additionally, to the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets may become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. These amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. We currently estimate that we will incur approximately $26.2 million of incremental annual amortization expense relating to the Authorize.Net merger during the year ended December 31, 2009. Changes in earnings per share, including as a result of this incremental expense, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to adequately integrate acquired businesses. As part of our future business strategy, we may pursue strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies that would provide additional product or service offerings, additional industry expertise, a broader client base or an expanded geographic presence. For example, on November 1, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Authorize.Net. If we do not successfully integrate a strategic acquisition, or if the benefits of the transaction do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Any future acquisition could result in the use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired company; • risks of entering markets in which we have either no or limited prior experiences; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company. Our international business is subject to additional foreign risks that could harm our business, results, and financial condition. Products and services provided to merchants outside the United States accounted for 6.8% and 8.7% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In March 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Japanese partners Marubeni Corporation and Trans-Cosmos, Inc. and established CyberSource K.K. to provide commerce transaction services to the Japanese market. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to additional risks that may affect our ability to sell our products and services and result in reduced revenues, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; 14 Table of Contents • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • war, political or economic instability or constraints on international trade. In addition, some software contains encryption technology that renders it subject to export restrictions and we may become liable to the extent we violate these restrictions. We might not successfully market, sell or distribute our products and services in local markets and we cannot be certain that one or more of these factors will not materially adversely affect our future international operations, and consequently, our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, sales of our products and services conducted through our subsidiary in the United Kingdom are primarily denominated in Pounds Sterling. We may experience fluctuations in revenues or operating expenses due to fluctuations in the value of the Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar. We do not currently enter into transactions with the specific purpose to hedge against currency exchange fluctuations. Risks Related To Our Industry The intense competition in our industry could reduce or eliminate the demand for our products and services. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition from merchant acquirers, independent sales organizations, and payment processors such as Chase Paymentech Solutions, First Data Corporation, and Royal Bank of Scotland. We also face competition from transaction service providers such as PayPal and Retail Decisions as well as eCommerce providers such as Bertelsmann Financial Services, Digital River, and GSI Commerce Inc. Further, other companies, including financial services and credit companies may enter the market and provide competing services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future channel partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products and services through these channels. We expect that competitive pressures may result in the reduction of our prices or our market share or both, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and to compete we must continually enhance our systems to comply with evolving standards. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services and the underlying network infrastructure. The Internet and the eCommerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our merchants, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to merchant requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, merchant requirements or emerging industry standards, we may be forced to compete in different ways or expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. The demand for our products and services could be negatively affected by a reduced growth of eCommerce or delays in the development of the internet infrastructure. We depend on the growing use and acceptance of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and customers in the United States and internationally. The sale of goods and services over the Internet has gained acceptance more 15 Table of Contents slowly outside of the United States. We cannot be certain that acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to develop or that a sufficiently broad base of merchants and consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. The increase in the significance of the Internet as a commercial marketplace may occur more slowly than anticipated for a number of reasons, including potentially inadequate development of the necessary network infrastructure or delayed development of enabling technologies and performance improvements. If the number of Internet users, or the use of Internet resources by existing users, continues to grow, it may overwhelm the existing Internet infrastructure. Delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity could also have a detrimental effect. These factors could result in slower response times or adversely affect usage of the Internet, resulting in lower numbers of commerce transactions and lower demand for our products and services. Global economics, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact our revenue and profitability The global electronic payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. The industry also relies in part on the number and size of consumer transactions. A sustained deterioration in the general economic conditions in the United States or globally may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number of average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease of our revenue and profits. We may become subject to government regulation and legal uncertainties that would adversely affect our operations and financial results. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, export control laws and laws or regulations directly applicable to eCommerce. However, due to the increasing usage of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be applicable or may be adopted in the future with respect to conducting business over the Internet covering issues such as: • taxes; • user privacy; • pricing; • content; • right to access personal data; • copyrights; • distribution; and • characteristics and quality of products and services. For example, we believe that our fraud screen service may require us to comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “Act”). As a precaution, we have implemented processes that we believe will enable us to comply with the Act if we were deemed a consumer reporting agency. Complying with the Act requires us to provide information about personal data stored by us. Failure to comply with the Act could result in claims being made against us by individual consumers and the Federal Trade Commission. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for eCommerce may prompt more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, export or import matters and personal privacy to the Internet is uncertain. The vast majority of laws were adopted prior to the broad commercial use of the Internet and related technologies. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes in the United States regarding taxation and encryption and in the European Union regarding contract formation and privacy, could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace and impose additional costs and other burdens. These uncertainties, costs and burdens could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business due to increased litigation costs or increased service delivery costs. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Potential fluctuations of our quarterly results could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. We base our operating expenses on anticipated market growth and our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenues are lower than we expect, our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the following: • changes in the size and number of transactions processed on behalf of customers as a result of seasonality, success of each customer’s business, general economic conditions or regulatory requirements restricting our customers; • our ability to attract new customers and to retain our existing customers; • customer acceptance of new products and services we may offer, including our global acquiring business; • customer acceptance of our pricing model; • customer acceptance of our software and our professional services offerings; • the success of our sales and marketing programs; • an interruption with one or more of our processors, other financial institutions and technology service providers; • seasonality of the retail sector; • changes in accounting rules and regulations; • changes in federal, state, and local income tax laws; • war or other international conflicts; • weakness in the general United States and global economies and financial markets; and • the lack of available capital for our customers and potential future customers. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results are set forth elsewhere in this section. As a result of these factors, our revenues are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. Due to the uncertainty surrounding our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future performance. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate due to factors outside our control. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and likely will continue to be volatile in response to various factors, some of which are outside our control, including the following: • the announcement of new products, services or enhancements by our competitors; • quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • developments in our industry; and • short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and market for technology companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations potentially unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors, as well as general economic, political and financial market conditions may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, including the issuance of authorized preferred stock, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation may make a change in control more difficult to finalize, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. These provisions may allow our Board of 17 Table of Contents Directors to prevent changes in our management and controlling interests. Under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. One anti-takeover provision that we have is the ability of our Board of Directors to determine the terms of preferred stock and issue preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows the issuance of up to 5,610,969 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2008, there are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion without approval of the holders of the common stock, the rights and preferences of this preferred stock may be superior to those of the common stock. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year and that remained unresolved. 