Item 1A. Risk Factors The most significant risk factors related to Baldor’s business are as follows: Our future results are subject to fluctuations in the price of raw materials. The principal raw materials used to produce our electric motors are steel, copper and aluminum. The prices of those raw materials are susceptible to significant fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, price controls, economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances. If we are unable to mitigate raw materials price increases through product design improvements, price increases to our customers, and hedging transactions, future profitability could be adversely affected. Our future results may be impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic conditions. Our business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond our control, such as an economic downturn in a specific country or region, or in the various industries we serve; social or political conditions in a specific country or region; or potential adverse changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our financial results may be affected by competitive conditions. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified companies and have substantially greater financial resources than us. Demand for our products may be affected by our ability to respond to downward pricing pressure, to continue to provide shorter lead time and quicker delivery of our products than our competitors, and to respond to changes in customer order patterns. An inability to anticipate changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends both on our ability to continue developing new and improved products in line with technological advancements that meet the evolving requirements of our customers, and our ability to bring these products rapidly to market. New products, or refinements and improvements of existing products, may have technical failures, their introduction may be delayed, they may have higher production costs than originally expected or they may not be accepted by our customers. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. We rely on independent distributors and the loss of these distributors would adversely affect our business. In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our customers. We are supported by an extensive distribution network, with over 10,000 distributor locations worldwide. Rather than serving as passive conduits for delivery of product, our industrial distributors are active participants in the overall competitive dynamics in our industry. Industrial distributors play a significant role in - 15 - Table of Contents determining which of our products are stocked, and therefore are readily accessible to end-users, and the price at which our products are sold. During the years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005, and January 1, 2005, the portion of domestic net sales generated through distributors amounted to approximately 48%, 50%, and 50%, respectively. For the year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 52% of Power Systems’ domestic revenues were generated through distributors. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business offer products and services of our competitors to our customers. In addition, the distribution agreements we have are typically not exclusive and are cancelable by the distributor after a short notice period. The impairment of our relationship with our distributors, the loss of a substantial number of these distributors or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to our customers could materially reduce our sales and profits. We are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States. Future growth rates and success of our business depend in part on continued growth in our non-U.S. operations. We have both sales and manufacturing operations outside of the United States. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in local governmental laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. International transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with U.S. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. While these factors and the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture, which could result in us having to expend significant time and expense to defend these claims and to pay material claims or settlement amounts. We face a risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage; however, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects or our ability to make payments under our debt obligations when due. In addition, we believe our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. In the event that our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products, which would reduce our sales and profitability. Our future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. From time to time we are party to legal and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business. We and the Acquired Business have been named as defendants in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos. The outcome of legal proceedings could differ from our expectations since the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, and our ability to collect from our insurers or on indemnities from third parties, are sometimes difficult to predict. As a result, we could be required to change current estimates of liabilities as litigation matters develop. Changes in these estimates or changes in our business as a result of legal and regulatory proceedings could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our total assets include goodwill. If we determine that goodwill has become impaired in the future, net income could be adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. At December 30, 2006, goodwill totaled $63 million. However, this will increase significantly in 2007 as a result of - 16 - Table of Contents our acquisition of the Acquired Business. We review goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our future results may be affected by environmental, health and safety laws, and regulations. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with those regulations. Failure to comply with certain regulations could subject us to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production. In addition we incur, in the normal course of business, various remediation expenses related to our manufacturing sites, none of which is expected to be material. If remediation obligations were to increase beyond our expectations or if we incurred fines, penalties, or suspension of production, future results could be adversely affected. Unplanned repairs or equipment outages could interrupt production and reduce income or cash flow. Unplanned repairs or equipment outages, including those due to natural disasters, could result in the disruption of our manufacturing process. Any interruption in our manufacturing process would interrupt our production of products, reduce our income and cash flow and could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure and failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. The inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business and our customers. We own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. The loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. In addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We sometimes provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. Indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to integrate the Acquired Business effectively. On January 31, 2007, we completed the acquisition of the Acquired Business. Even though we have acquired businesses in the past, this acquisition constitutes the largest acquisition we have ever undertaken and, although Rockwell has agreed to provide various services to us during a transition period, the magnitude of the acquisition will present significant integration challenges and costs to us. Realization of the benefits of the acquisition will require the integration of - 17 - Table of Contents some or all of the sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, finance, information technology systems and administrative operations of the Acquired Business with Baldor. The successful integration will require substantial attention from our senior management, which may decrease the time they devote to normal and customary operating, selling and administrative functions. If we cannot successfully integrate the Acquired Business within a reasonable time frame, we may not be able to realize the potential benefits anticipated from the acquisition. Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the Acquired Business. Furthermore, even if we are able to integrate successfully the operations of the Acquired Business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that we anticipate, either in the amount or within the time frame that we expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we expect. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • the use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect, including restructuring and other exit costs; • increases in other expenses related to the acquisition, which may offset the cost savings and other synergies from the acquisition; • our ability to eliminate effectively duplicative back office overhead and overlapping redundant selling, general and administrative functions, rationalize manufacturing capacity and shift production to more economical facilities; and • our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration, particularly in connection with any headcount reduction. We may encounter additional risks in integrating the Acquired Business. Other risks associated with the acquisition include: • Rockwell has recently disclosed potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) in connection with certain of the Acquired Business’s foreign operations. We have been indemnified by Rockwell against government penalties arising from these potential violations, but this indemnification is subject to limitations and there can be no assurance that Rockwell Automation will be able to pay on the indemnity at the time we make a claim against the indemnity. Our foreign operations may be adversely affected by the change in business practices made necessary by the FCPA. • In addition, Rockwell recently disclosed potential violations of the U.S. Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”.) • The Acquired Business has been named as a potentially responsible party at environmental clean-up sites, and may be so named in the future as well and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. We have been indemnified by Rockwell against environmental liabilities relating to certain properties that had been formerly owned or operated by the Acquired Business but this indemnification is subject to limitations and there can be no assurance that Rockwell will be able to pay on the indemnity at the time we make a claim against the indemnity. • Currently, no Baldor employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, after completing the acquisition approximately 7% of our employees will be covered by collective bargaining agreements. As a result, strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees could disrupt our manufacturing operations, reduce our revenues or increase our people costs. Any potential strikes or work stoppages, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with customers, could disrupt our manufacturing operations, reduce our revenue or increase our people costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. - 18 - Table of Contents • As part of the acquisition, we will assume liability for retiree healthcare obligations with respect to active and retired employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and certain other active employees. The actual cost of funding such obligation is subject to unpredictable healthcare cost inflation. We have also agreed to fund healthcare expenses incurred by or on behalf of employees that are not paid as of closing. Such expenses are estimated in a range of $3-5 million. In addition, we will establish certain defined benefit plans similar to those of Rockwell to cover some of the employees of the Acquired Business. The additional costs associated with these and other benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. • While most of the Acquired Business’s key personnel have indicated that they will remain with us after the acquisition, we cannot be assured that these individuals will stay with us. • As a result of the acquisition, we assumed the Acquired Business’s liabilities, other than certain pension liabilities. There may be liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations. We cannot be assured that rights to indemnification by Rockwell to us will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. After the acquisition, we may learn additional information about the Acquired Business that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws. • We substantially increased our leverage to finance the acquisition of the Acquired Business. In January 2007 we borrowed $1.6 billion under a new senior secured credit facility and a new senior note agreement. The increased indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or fund capital expenditure or working capital needs because we will require additional funds to service our indebtedness. In addition, financial and other covenants related to the financing will limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not waived or cured, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 