Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business: Risks Relating to Our Business Because we depend on a small number of key clients, non-recurring revenue and contracts terminable on short notice, our business could be adversely affected if we fail to retain these clients and/or obtain new clients at a level sufficient to support our operations and/or broaden our client base. During the year ended December 31, 2010, two of our clients, PNC Bank (31.6%) and Bank of America (14.4%) accounted collectively for approximately 46.0% of our total revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2009, two of our clients, PNC Bank (28.6%) and Bank of America (10.2%) accounted collectively for approximately 38.8% of our total revenues. Further, the majority of our current assets consist of accounts receivable, and as of December 31, 2010, receivables relating to PNC Bank and Bank of America accounted for 33.5% and 25.3% of our accounts receivable balance, respectively. The loss of any of our largest clients could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our contracts provide that our services are terminable upon short notice, typically not more than 30 days. Non-renewal or termination of contracts with these or other clients without adequate replacements could have a material and adverse effect upon our business. In addition, a large portion of our revenues are derived from information technology consulting services that are generally non-recurring in nature. There can be no assurance that we will: · obtain additional contracts for projects similar in scope to those previously obtained from our clients; · be able to retain existing clients or attract new clients; · provide services in a manner acceptable to clients; · offer pricing for services which is acceptable to clients; or · broaden our client base so that we will not remain largely dependent upon a limited number of clients that will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. The Company has received a qualified audit opinion on its ability to continue as a going concern. The audit report our independent registered public accounting firm issued on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 contains a qualification regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. This qualification indicates that the Company’s recent losses, other than in fiscal year 2009, negative cash flows from operations, its net working capital deficiency and its ability to pay its outstanding debt as they become due raises substantial doubt that we can continue as a going concern in default of covenants with our financial institution. Such a qualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm may limit our ability to access certain types of financing, or may prevent us from obtaining financing on acceptable terms. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. 13 We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. There is a lack of segregation of duties at the Company due to the small number of employees dealing with general administrative and financial matters and general controls over information technology security and user access. This constitutes a weakness in financial reporting. Furthermore, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer is the only person with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the selection, application and implementation of generally accepted accounting principles as it relates to complex transactions and financial reporting requirements. At present, the Company’s ability to rectify the internal control weaknesses relating to the segregation of duties and the general controls over information technology security and user access is limited due to budgetary constraints. If we cannot rectify these material weaknesses through remedial measures and improvements to our systems and procedures, management may encounter difficulties in timely assessing business performance and identifying incipient strategic and oversight issues. Management is reviewing possible improvements to internal controls, and compensating controls, and this focus will require management from time to time to devote its attention away from other planning, oversight and performance functions. We cannot provide assurances as to the result of these efforts. We cannot be certain that any measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting have been materially deficient. Our management, under the supervision and with the participation of our CEO and CFO, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and (f) and15d-15(e) and (f) as of the end of the period covered by this Report based upon the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on such evaluation, our management has made an assessment that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is not effective as of December 31, 2010. Certain client-related complications may materially adversely affect our business. We may be subject to additional risks relating to our clients that could materially adversely affect our business, such as delays in clients paying their outstanding invoices, lengthy client review processes for awarding contracts, delay, termination, reduction or modification of contracts in the event of changes in client policies or as a result of budgetary constraints, and/or increased or unexpected costs resulting in losses under fixed-fee contracts, which factors could also adversely affect our business. We have a history of losses and we could incur losses in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sustained a net loss of $771,753 and for the year ended December 31, 2009 we reported net income of $31,956 and we cannot be sure that we will operate profitably in the future. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we reported a net loss in the approximate amount of $10.5 million. If we do not become profitable on an ongoing basis, we could have difficulty obtaining funds to continue our operations. Except for the year ended December 31, 2009, we have incurred net losses each year since our merger with LCS Group, Inc. We have a significant amount of debt, which, in the event of a default, could have material adverse consequences upon us. Our total debt as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $6.9 million. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to us, including the following: 14 · A portion of our cash flow must be used to pay interest on our indebtedness, and therefore is not available for use in our business; · Our indebtedness increases our vulnerability to changes in general economic and industry conditions; · Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or other purposes could be impaired; · Our failure to comply with restrictions contained in the terms of our borrowings could lead to a default which could cause all or a significant portion of our debt to become immediately payable; and · If we default, the loans will become due and we may not have the funds to repay the loans, and we could discontinue our business and investors could lose all their money. In addition, certain terms of such loans require the prior consent of Access Capital Inc. on many corporate actions including, but not limited to, mergers and acquisitions—which is part of our ongoing business strategy. Our failure to maintain adequate working capital triggered an event of default under our line of credit with Access Capital. As of April 2008 and since that point in time, we failed to maintain $400,000 of working capital that is required by the Loan and Security Agreement with Access Capital, which constitutes an event of default. In connection with the default, the Company and Access entered into a Limited Waiver Agreement whereby Access Capital waived the default, on the condition that (i) all debts owed to Access Capital bear an interest rate of 18% per annum from May 1, 2008 until such time as we maintain working capital of at least $400,000 and (ii) that we pay to Access a waiver fee in the amount of $5,000. Although Access Capital waived certain rights and remedies in connection with this event of default, Access Capital may not waive these rights in the future. As of December 31, 2010, the Company remained in default with respect to the Access Capital Loan and Security Agreement. Although the Company remains in default of the Loan and Security Agreement, in January 2010 Access Capital reduced the interest rate on borrowings under the line of credit from 18% to 12% per annum. The promissory note and related agreements delivered to Access Capital in connection with the line of credit contain several events of default which include: · failure to pay interest, principal payments or other fees when due; · failure to maintain a minimum of $400,000 of working capital; · failure to pay taxes when due unless such taxes are being contested in good faith; · breach by us of any material covenant or term or condition of the notes or any agreements made in connection therewith; · default on any indebtedness to which we or our subsidiaries are a party which has a material adverse effect; · breach by us of any material representation or warranty made in the notes or in any agreements made in connection therewith; · attachment is made or levy upon collateral securing the Access Capital debt which is valued at more than $25,000 and is not timely mitigated; 15 · any lien created under the notes and agreements is not valid and perfected having a first priority interest; · assignment for the benefit of our creditors, or a receiver or trustee is appointed for us; · bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding instituted by or against us and not dismissed within 45 days; · the inability to pay debts as they become due or cease business operations; · sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance of any assets except as permitted; · a person or group becomes a beneficial owner of 20% on a fully diluted basis of the outstanding voting equity interest or the present directors cease to be the majority on the Board of Directors; · indictment or threatened criminal indictment, or commencement of threatened commencement of any criminal or civil proceeding against us or any executive officer; and · take any action which would be prohibited under the provisions of any subordination agreement or make any payment on subordinated debt that any person was not entitled to receive under the provisions of the applicable subordination agreement. If Access Capital demands all amounts due and payable, the cash required to pay such amounts would most likely come out of working capital, which may not be sufficient to repay the amounts due. The default payment shall be the outstanding principal amount of the note, plus accrued but unpaid interest, all other fees then remaining unpaid, and all other amounts payable thereunder. In addition, since we rely on our working capital for our day to day operations, such a default on the note could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. Further, our obligations under the notes are secured by substantially all of our assets. Failure to fulfill our obligations under the notes and related agreements could lead to loss of these assets, which would be detrimental to our operations. As of March 17, 2011, Access Capital has not exercised any other of its default rights and the Company is in the process of negotiating the terms for extending the Loan and Security Agreement on maturity. The Company expects the interest rate to remain at 12% per annum and other terms of the new Loan and Security Agreement to be similar to the terms of the existing agreement. Our operating results are difficult to forecast. We may increase our general and administrative expenses in the event that we increase our business and/or acquire other businesses, while our operating expenses for sales and marketing and costs of services for technical personnel to provide and support our services also increases. Additionally, although many of our clients are large, creditworthy entities, at any given point in time, we may have significant accounts receivable balances with clients that expose us to credit risks if such clients either delay or elect not to pay or are unable to pay such obligations. If we have an unexpected shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses, or significant bad debt experience, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our profitability, if any, will suffer if we are not able to retain existing clients or attract new clients. A continuation of current pricing pressures could result in permanent changes in pricing policies and delivery capabilities. Our gross profit margin is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our information technology services. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization of our professionals without corresponding cost reductions, our margins will suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: · our clients' perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; 16 · pricing policies of our competitors; · our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain engagement revenues, margins and cash flows over increasingly longer contract periods; · the use of globally sourced, lower-cost service delivery capabilities by our competitors and our clients; and · general economic and political conditions. Our gross margins are also a function of our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. If the continuation of current pricing pressures persists it could result in permanent changes in pricing policies and delivery capabilities and we must continuously improve our management of costs. Unexpected costs or delays could make our contracts unprofitable. In the future, we may have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on all of our margins and potential net income. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to adapt to emerging and evolving markets and economic conditions. The markets for our services are changing rapidly and evolving and, therefore, the ultimate level of demand for our services is subject to substantial uncertainty. Most of our historic revenue was generated from providing information technology services only. During the last several years, we have focused our efforts on providing data warehousing services in particular since we believe that there is going to be an increased need in this area. Any significant decline in demand for programming, applications development, information technology or data warehousing consulting services could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our ability to achieve growth targets is dependent in part on maintaining existing clients and continually attracting and retaining new clients to replace those who have not renewed their contracts. Our ability to achieve market acceptance, including for data warehousing, will require substantial efforts and expenditures on our part to create awareness of our services. If we should experience rapid growth, such growth could strain our managerial and operational resources, which could adversely affect our business. Any rapid growth that we may experience would most likely place a significant strain on our managerial and operational resources. If we acquire other companies, we will be required to manage multiple relationships with various clients, strategic partners and other third parties. Further growth (organic or by acquisition) or an increase in the number of strategic relationships may increase this strain on existing managerial and operational resources, inhibiting our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to implement our growth strategy without incurring additional corporate expenses. Lack of detailed written contracts could impair our ability to collect fees, protect our intellectual property and protect ourselves from liability to others. We try to protect ourselves by entering into detailed written contracts with our clients covering the terms and contingencies of the client engagement. In some cases, however, consistent with what we believe to be industry practice, work is performed for clients on the basis of a limited statement of work or verbal agreements before a detailed written contact can be finalized. To the extent that we fail to have detailed written contracts in place, our ability to collect fees, protect our intellectual property and protect ourselves from liability from others may be impaired. 17 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, new SEC regulations and exchange rules (although not, as of the date of this Annual Report, applicable to us), are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting will require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Further, our Board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified Board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. We face intense competition and our failure to meet this competition could adversely affect our business. Competition for our information technology consulting services, including data warehousing, is significant and we expect that this competition will continue to intensify due to the low barriers to entry. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing or support capabilities to adequately meet this competition. We compete against numerous large companies, including, among others, multi-national and other major consulting firms. These firms have substantially greater market presence, longer operating histories, more significant client bases and greater financial, technical, facilities, marketing, capital and other resources than we have. If we are unable to compete against such competitors, our business will be adversely affected. Our competitors may respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements. Our competitors may also devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sales of our services. If one or more of our competitors develops and implements methodologies that result in superior productivity and price reductions without adversely affecting their profit margins, our business could suffer. Competitors may also: · engage in more extensive research and development; · undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; · adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and · make more attractive offers to our existing and potential employees and strategic partners. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that could be detrimental to our business. New competitors, including large computer hardware, software, professional services and other technology companies, may enter our markets and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result of increased competition and vertical and horizontal integration in the industry, we could encounter significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures could result in substantially lower average selling prices for our services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher revenue from consulting services, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, professional services businesses are likely to encounter consolidation in the future, which could result in decreased pricing and other competition. We depend on our management and qualified personnel. If we fail to retain key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas in which we operate. The loss of existing personnel or the failure to recruit additional qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel, as well as expenses in connection with hiring and retaining personnel, particularly in the emerging area of data warehousing and in business process consulting, could adversely affect our business. We also depend upon the performance of our executive officers and key employees in particular, Lori Cohen and Bryan Carey. Our employment agreement with Ms. Cohen has expired. Ms. Cohen’s employment with us continues at an “at-will” basis. In addition, we have not obtained "key man" life insurance on the lives of Ms. Cohen or Mr. Carey. 18 We will need to attract, train and retain more employees for management, engineering, programming, sales and marketing, and client service and support positions. As noted above, competition for qualified employees, particularly engineers, programmers and consultants, continues to be intense. Consequently, we may not be able to attract, train and retain the personnel we need to continue to offer solutions and services to current and future clients in a cost effective manner, if at all. If we fail to raise capital that we may need to support and increase our operations, our business could be adversely affected. Our future capital uses and requirements will depend on several factors, including: · the extent to which our solutions and services achieve market acceptance; · the level of revenues from current and future solutions and services; · the expansion of operations; · the costs and timing of product and service developments and sales and marketing activities; · the costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and · competitive developments. We will require additional capital in order to continue to support and increase our sales and marketing efforts, continue to expand and enhance the solutions and services we are able to offer to current and future clients and fund potential acquisitions. This capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, we may be required to spend greater-than-anticipated funds if unforeseen difficulties arise in the course of these or other aspects of our business. As a consequence, we will be required to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative relationships, bank facilities or other arrangements. We cannot assure that such additional capital will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any additional equity financing is expected to be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and increased interest costs. Our inability to obtain sufficient financing may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our expansion programs or to limit the marketing of our services. This could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We could have potential liability for intellectual property infringement, personal injury, property damage or breach of contract to our clients that could adversely affect our business. Our services involve development and implementation of computer systems and computer software that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses. If we fail or are unable to satisfy a client's expectations in the performance of our services, our business reputation could be harmed or we could be subject to a claim for substantial damages, regardless of our responsibility for such failure or inability. In addition, in the course of performing services, our personnel often gain access to technologies and content which include confidential or proprietary client information. Although we have implemented policies to prevent such client information from being disclosed to unauthorized parties or used inappropriately, any such unauthorized disclosure or use could result in a claim for substantial damages. Our business could be adversely affected if one or more large claims are asserted against us that are uninsured, exceed available insurance coverage or result in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements. Although we maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, there can be no assurance that such coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. One major investor controls a significant number of the outstanding shares of our common stock and will continue to have significant control of our voting securities for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, one major investor, Matthew Szulik, controls approximately 45.9% of our common stock. Such percentages include options, warrants and convertible securities that are exercisable into common stock within sixty (60) days and is based on using the conversion feature for the number of shares to be issued with respect to the Series A convertible preferred stock. If the Company redeems the Series A convertible preferred stock in shares of Company stock, this percentage would be different as the redemption calculation would be based on the Volume Weighted Average Price of the common stock for the fifteen business days immediately prior to the redemption date. This concentration of ownership of our common stock may: · delay or prevent a change in the control; · impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other transaction involving us; or 19 · discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. The authorization and issuance of “blank check” preferred stock could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation allows the Board of Directors to issue 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences set by our Board without further stockholder approval. The issuance of shares of this "blank check preferred" under particular circumstances could have an anti-takeover effect. For example, in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, it may be possible for management and the Board to endeavor to impede the attempt by issuing shares of blank check preferred, thereby diluting or impairing the voting power of the other outstanding shares of common stock and increasing the potential costs to acquire control of us. Our Board of Directors has the right to issue blank check preferred without first offering them to holders of our common stock, as the holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights. To date, the Company has issued 19,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to investors represented by TAG Virgin Islands, Inc. and 20,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock to an individual investor. The Company is in default with respect to redemption of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock The Company issued 19,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred”) to investors represented by TAG Virgin Islands, Inc. on February 2, 2006 which was to be redeemed on February 1, 2011 in either cash or in shares of the Company’s Common Stock, at the Company’s option. On the redemption date, the Company was unable to redeem the Series A Preferred for cash and did not have sufficient authorized but unissued shares available to redeem the Series A Preferred in Common Stock. The Company expects to, at its next annual meeting of shareholders, propose to the Company’s stockholders an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock in an amount as to allow the Company to pay the redemption price in shares of Common Stock. If and when such a proposal is approved by the Company’s shareholders, the Company expects to redeem the Series A Preferred with shares of Common Stock. Until the Company pays the redemption price of the Series A Preferred, holders of the Series A Preferred will continue to receive dividends in the amount of 5% per annum as set forth in the Certificate of Designations. Our services or solutions may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services or solutions. In some instances, the amount of these expenses may be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We may not be able to enter into these royalty or licensing arrangements on acceptable terms. To the best of our knowledge, we have never infringed upon the intellectual property rights of another individual or entity. We could be subject to systems failures that could adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently maintain our computer systems in our facilities at our offices in New Jersey and elsewhere. We do not have complete redundancy in our systems and therefore any damage or destruction to our systems would significantly harm our business. Although we have taken precautions against systems failure, interruptions could result from natural disasters as well as power losses, telecommunications failures and similar events. Our systems are also subject to human error, security breaches, computer viruses, break-ins, "denial of service" attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and tampering designed to disrupt our computer systems. We also lease telecommunications lines from local and regional carriers, whose service may be interrupted. Any damage or failure that interrupts or delays network operations could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately address security issues. We have taken measures to protect the integrity of our technology infrastructure and the privacy of confidential information. Nonetheless, our technology infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If a person or entity circumvents our security measures, it could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on our systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to make substantial additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. 20 Risks Relating To Acquisitions We face intense competition for acquisition candidates, and we have limited cash available for such acquisitions. There is a high degree of competition among companies seeking to acquire interests in information technology service companies such as those we may target for acquisition. We plan to be an active participant in the business of seeking business relationships with, and acquisitions of interests in, such companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in acquiring interests in companies that we may find to be desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these investment-oriented entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do. Consequently, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible investments in these entities as many competitors generally have easier access to capital, on which entrepreneur-founders of privately-held information technology service companies generally place greater emphasis than obtaining the management skills and networking services that we can provide. Even if we are able to compete with these venture capital entities, this competition may affect the terms and conditions of potential acquisitions and, as a result, we may pay more than expected for targeted acquisitions. If we cannot acquire interests in attractive companies on reasonable terms, our strategy to build our business through acquisitions may be inhibited. 21 We will encounter difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition candidates and integrating new acquisitions. An element of our future business strategy is to grow through acquisitions. If we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make investments or acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms. Acquisitions may cause a disruption in our ongoing business, distract management, require other resources and make it difficult to maintain our standards, controls and procedures. We may not be able to retain key employees of the acquired companies or maintain good relations with their clients or suppliers. We may be required to incur additional debt and to issue equity securities, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders, to effect and/or fund acquisitions. We cannot assure you that any acquisitions we make will enhance our business. We cannot assure you that any completed acquisition will enhance our business. Since we anticipate that acquisitions could be made with both cash and our common stock, if we consummate one or more significant acquisitions, the potential impacts are: · a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the acquisitions and/or we could incur or assume significant amounts of indebtedness; · losses resulting from the on-going operations of these acquisitions could adversely affect our cash flow; and · our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interest in our common stock. Also, we are required to account for acquisitions under the purchase method, which would likely result in our recording significant amounts of goodwill. The inability of a subsidiary to sustain profitability may result in an impairment loss in the value of long-lived assets, principally goodwill and other tangible and intangible assets, which would adversely affect our financial statements. Additionally, we could choose to divest any acquisition that is not profitable. Director and officer liability is limited. As permitted by Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director's fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of our charter provision and Delaware law, stockholders may have limited rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we shall indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on marketability of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, our common stock is subject to rules that impose additional requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. 22 Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary market and the price at which such purchasers can sell any such securities. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the Commission, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · "Boiler room" practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current Board of Directors does not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings for reinvestment in our business and/or to fund future acquisitions. In addition, our Loan and Security Agreement with Access Capital requires that we obtain their consent prior to paying any dividends on our common stock. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause possible volatility in our stock price. There has only been a limited public market for our securities and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our securities will be maintained. In addition, the overall market for securities has experienced extreme price and volume downturns that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies. The trading price of our common stock is expected to be subject to significant fluctuations including, but not limited to, the following: · quarterly variations in operating results and achievement of key business metrics; · changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, if any; · any differences between reported results and securities analysts' published or unpublished expectations; · announcements of new contracts or service offerings by us or our competitors; · market reaction to any acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; · demand for our services and products; · shares being sold pursuant to Rule 144 or upon exercise of warrants; and 23 · general economic or stock market conditions unrelated to our operating performance. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may have a material or adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Additional shares of our common stock and preferred stock may adversely affect the market. We are authorized to issue 300,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 18, 2011, there were 129,345,353 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. However, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the conversion of notes or the exercise of options or warrants. As of March 18, 2011, we had 16,666,667 shares of common stock underlying convertible notes. As of March 18, 2011, we had outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 76,556,081 shares of our common stock, the exercise prices of which range between $0.001 and $5.25 per share, and we will have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potential exercise thereof. Of the reserved shares, a total of 10,000,000 shares are currently reserved for issuance in connection with our 2003 Incentive Plan. To the extent such options or warrants are exercised, the holders of our common stock will experience further dilution. In addition, in the event that any future financing should be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, and upon the exercise of options and warrants, investors may experience additional dilution. The exercise of the outstanding convertible securities will reduce the percentage of common stock held by our stockholders. Further, the terms on which we could obtain additional capital during the life of the convertible securities and warrants may be adversely affected, and it should be expected that the holders of the convertible securities and warrants would exercise them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than those provided for by such convertible securities. As a result, any issuance of additional shares of common stock may cause our current stockholders to suffer significant dilution which may adversely affect the market. In addition to the above-referenced shares of common stock which may be issued without stockholder approval, we have 20,000,000 shares of authorized preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors. To date, we have issued 19,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to shareholders represented by TAG Virgin Islands, Inc. (convertible into 3,800,000 shares of common stock) and 20,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (convertible into up to 4,000,000 shares of common stock based upon the lowest contractual conversion price) to an individual investor. We are required to redeem all the outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock with cash or shares of our common stock. We are currently in default with respect to the redemption of all the outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. We did not have sufficient cash available in order to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock in cash and we also did not have sufficient authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available. In order to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock with shares of our common stock, we would need to issue approximately 145,170,038 shares of common stock, which would require an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock. We presently have no plans to issue any more additional shares of preferred stock. However, our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, after satisfying a six month holding period: (i) affiliated stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and (ii) non-affiliated stockholders may sell without such limitations, provided we are current in our public reporting obligations. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities by non-affiliates that have satisfied a one year holding period without any limitation or restriction. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 