ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our product development programs, contract revenues, expenses, net losses, and earnings per share. We have a history of losses and anticipate future losses. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in December 1992, including a net loss of $12.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $244.3 million. We are unsure if or when we will become profitable. The size of our net losses will depend, in part, on the growth rate of our revenues and the level of our expenses. We derive all of our revenues from payments from collaborations with corporations and government entities and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. It may be several years, if ever, before we will recognize revenue from product candidate sales or royalties. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment, and personnel. In addition, we expect to spend significant amounts to fund research and development and to enhance our core technologies. As a result of our operating expenses, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis. We are a biopharmaceutical company deploying unproven technologies, and we may never be able to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, or market any of our product candidates. Gene-based products are new and rapidly evolving medical approaches, which have not been shown to be effective on a widespread basis. Only a limited number of gene-based products have been successfully developed and commercialized to date. In addition, no gene therapy product has received regulatory approval in the U.S. None of our product candidates have been approved for sale in the U.S. or elsewhere. Gene-based products may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects from genes or the delivery systems, unintended immune responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy, or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval or commercial use. Successful products require significant development and investment, including a lengthy and uncertain period of testing to show their safety and effectiveness before their regulatory approval or commercialization. We have not proven our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, or commercialize gene-based medicines or vaccines. In this regard, although we had previously announced encouraging preliminary clinical results for TNFerade, on March 29, 2010 we announced that we discontinued our Phase 3 clinical study of TNFerade in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer because an interim analysis of clinical data indicated that the trial would not meet its primary endpoint. While TNFerade has been studied for the treatment of other cancers, there are no trials currently ongoing, and we have not determined when or if we will pursue development of TNFerade for these other cancers, either on our own or with a collaborator. Neither we nor our collaborators may be able to successfully select those genes or antigens with the most potential for commercial development. If we or our collaborators fail to adequately show the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, we will not be able to obtain FDA approval of our product candidates. We face the risk of failure involved in developing therapies based on new technologies and the difficulties generally associated with drug development. Neither we nor our collaborators currently have any of our product candidates in clinical trials. Significant additional research and animal testing, referred to as preclinical testing, will need to be conducted before any of our product candidates currently under active development can advance to clinical trials. It may take us many years to complete preclinical testing or trials, and we expect that doing so will be dependent on our ability to enter into collaborations. Drug development is an uncertain scientific and medial endeavor, and failure could occur at any stage of development. Acceptable results in early testing or trials might not be repeated later. Not all products in preclinical testing or early stage clinical trials will become approved products, and historically there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. Before an application can be filed with the FDA for product approval, we or our collaborators must show that a particular product candidate is safe and effective. Even with respect to 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS product candidates that advance to clinical trials, we or our collaborators must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of those product candidates before FDA approval can be secured. The failure to adequately show the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates would prevent FDA approval of our products. Any one of our product candidates could fail at any time, as clinical development of drug candidates presents numerous unpredictable and significant risks and is very uncertain at all times prior to regulatory approval by the FDA or health authorities in other major markets. Because regulatory approval must be obtained to market our products in the United States and in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when our products will be commercialized; failure to comply with applicable regulations can also harm our business and operations. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by a wide range of authorities. We cannot predict whether we or our collaborators will obtain regulatory approval for any of our products. No one can market a pharmaceutical product in the United States until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing, clinical trials, and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA. To date, the FDA has not approved a gene therapy product for sale in the United States. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the product, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, and promotion of drugs for human use. Before commencing clinical trials, an Investigational New Drug application (IND) must be submitted to the FDA and approval of the IND must be received from the FDA. Clinical trials are subject to continuing oversight by Institutional Review Boards (IRB) and the FDA. Clinical trials are also subject to: • Informed consent; • Good clinical practices (GCP) regulations; and • Potential suspension or termination by the company conducting the clinical trial, the IRB, or the FDA at any time if, among other reasons, it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the IND or the conduct of these trials. Delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process may be encountered because of additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials, and FDA regulatory review. For instance, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA new authority to: (1) require companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety, (3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, and (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, or injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease indications for which the product has shown through clinical trials to be safe and effective. Even if approved, a product may not be approved for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization or the FDA may impose restrictions on distribution of the product that may materially impact our operations. The FDA also strictly regulates promotion and labeling after approval. Outside the United States, the ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving clearances from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This non-U.S. regulatory approval process includes risks similar to those associated with FDA clearance described above and is subject to the independent judgments, policies, priorities and decisions of the applicable regulatory authorities, which may differ from those of the FDA. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS A central aspect of our business strategy is to enter into collaborations with other companies to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, and commercialize our potential products, and if we are unable to find collaborators or sustain existing relationships, we may not be able to develop, test, and commercialize our products. A central aspect of our business strategy is to enter into collaborations to support the development of our pipeline of products in hearing loss, oncology, and vaccines. In addition to our existing collaborations, we are engaged in seeking or intend to seek strategic collaborations with corporate partners for our existing programs, including: vaccines against RSV and HSV-2, and TNFerade for the treatment of cancer. If we are not able to enter into and sustain collaboration agreements, we would need to develop additional capabilities in testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of products, among other areas, and we would need to raise additional funds for the development, testing, and commercialization of our product candidates. If we are not able to enter into successful collaborations or obtain additional funds through other means, we would have to delay or curtail the development and commercialization of certain product candidates. Similarly, if we are not able to enter into and sustain collaboration agreements with corporate partners who have expertise in testing and commercialization of product candidates, we would need to develop additional capabilities, which would also require additional funds. We intend to continue to seek support for our funded contracts and collaborations for the development of new vaccines, but our existing agreements are subject to termination and uncertain future funding and there is no certainty that we will be able to enter into new agreements. In addition to corporate collaborations, we have entered into agreements with government agencies, such as the NIAID, the DHS, the USDA, and the NMRC, to support our vaccine research. These agreements have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue entering into these agreements in the future. Our business strategy is partially dependent on maintaining funding from these types of collaborations, as well as, the continued performance by these government agencies of their responsibilities under these agreements. The ability of government agencies to perform under these agreements is dependent upon adequate continued funding of the agencies and their programs. We have no control over the resources and funding government agencies may devote to these agreements, which may be subject to annual renewal and which generally may be terminated by the government agencies at any time. Any significant reductions in the funding of U.S. government agencies or in the funding areas targeted by our business could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations to deliver in the manner required by the agreement, the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations allow the government to cancel the agreement in whole or in part, and we may be required to perform corrective actions, including but not limited to delivering to the government any uncompleted or partially completed work. The performance of these corrective actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial results in the period or periods affected. Government agencies may fail to perform their responsibilities under these agreements, which could materially impact our financial results. In addition, our contract related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs, are subject to audits and adjustments by negotiation between us and the U.S. government. As part of the audit process, the government audit agency verifies that all charges made by a contractor against a contract are legitimate and appropriate. Audits may result in recalculation of contract revenues and non-reimbursement of some contract costs and fees. Any audits of our contract related costs and fees could result in material adjustments to our revenues. In addition, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take several years. Consequently, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Any failure of such agencies to continue to fund such contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We apply for and have received funding from government agencies under Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) and Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants. Eligibility of public companies to receive 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS such grants is based on size and ownership criteria that are under review by the Small Business Administration (SBA). As a result, our eligibility may change in the future and additional funding from this source may not be available. We depend, and anticipate depending further, on corporate collaborators for the development of our product candidates. When we sign a collaboration agreement, license agreement or similar agreement with a collaborator to develop a product candidate, we will generally expect them to further the development of the product candidate, which could include the design and conduct of clinical trials, the preparation and filing of documents necessary to obtain regulatory approval, and the manufacturing, sale, marketing and other commercialization of the product if it obtains regulatory approval. We may also grant the collaborator certain rights. For example, under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Novartis, we granted Novartis certain exclusive, worldwide rights in specified intellectual property related to our atonal gene program and atonal adenovectors, as well as non-exclusive, world-wide rights to certain other intellectual property related to our hearing loss and balance disorders program and our adenovector platform related to the atonal gene. Novartis has the right to develop and commercialize any products related to the licensed intellectual property. Our dependence on a corporate collaborator, such as Novartis, subjects us to a number of risks, including: • We may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that the collaborator devotes to the development or commercialization of product candidates or to their marketing and distribution; • The collaborator may not be successful in its efforts to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or at all; • The collaborator may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; • The collaborator may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; • Changes in the collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect its willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • Our agreement with the collaborator may fail to provide us with significant protection, or may not be effectively enforced, if a collaborator fails to perform; • The collaboration may be terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates; • The collaborator could have the ability to unilaterally terminate agreements, or have extension or renewal rights, in instances that we believe are not commercially reasonable or consistent with our current business strategy; and • The collaborator may not be able to pay us as expected. Given these risks, the success of our current and future collaborations is highly unpredictable and can have a substantial negative or positive impact on our business. If our collaborations fail, our product development or commercialization of product candidates could be delayed or cancelled, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Collaborations might produce conflicts that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our potential product candidates and negatively impact our business and financial condition. An important part of our strategy involves conducting multiple product development programs. We may pursue opportunities in fields that conflict with those of our collaborators. In addition, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over rights to our intellectual property or rights to technology developed with our collaborators. The resolution of such conflicts and disagreements may affect ownership of intellectual property that we believe we are entitled to. In addition, any disagreement or conflict with our collaborators could 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationship with existing collaborators. Such a conflict or disagreement could also lead to delays or termination of collaborative research, development, regulatory approval, or commercialization of various products or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming, expensive, lead to a diversion of management attention and resources and could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our collaboration agreements may prohibit us from conducting research in areas that may compete with our collaboration products, while our collaborators may not be limited to the same extent. This could negatively affect our ability to develop products and, ultimately, prevent us from achieving a continuing source of revenues. We anticipate some of our corporate or academic collaborators will be conducting multiple product development efforts within each disease area that is the subject of their collaborations with us. In certain circumstances we have agreed not to conduct independently, or with any third party, certain research and development activities that are competitive with the research and development activities conducted under our collaborations. Therefore, our collaborations may limit the areas of research and development we may pursue alone or with others. Some of our collaborators, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of their collaborations with us. In addition, competing products, either developed by the collaborators or to which the collaborators have rights, may result in their withdrawing support for our product candidates. We do not currently have any late stage clinical trials in our therapeutic product or vaccine development programs; therefore, we do not have any near-term prospects of generating revenues from the commercial sale of our therapeutic or vaccine products. On March 29, 2010, we announced that we discontinued our Phase 3 clinical study of TNFerade in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer because an interim analysis of clinical data indicated that the trial would not meet its primary endpoint. As a result of discontinuing this trial, we no longer have a late-stage clinical development candidate. While TNFerade has been studied for the treatment of other cancers, there are no ongoing trials, and we have not determined when or if we will pursue development of TNFerade for these other cancers, either on our own or with a collaborator. We do not have any other therapeutic or vaccine late stage clinical programs. Accordingly, we do not have any near-term prospects of generating revenues from the commercial sale of our product candidates in our therapeutic or vaccine programs. Agreements with government agencies may lead to claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act, and these claims could result in substantial fines and other penalties. The biopharmaceutical industry is, and in recent years has been, under heightened scrutiny as the subject of government investigations and enforcement actions. Our agreements with the U.S. government are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the Federal Civil False Claims Act. Under the False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions, private enforcement of fraud claims against businesses on behalf of the U.S. government has increased due in part to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by private individuals, including present and former employees. The False Claims Act statute provides for treble damages and up to $11,000 per false claim. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws, or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, exclusions, curtailment, or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. We or our collaborators may experience delays in conducting our clinical trials. Even in the event that one or more of our product candidates advance to clinical trials, those clinical trials may be delayed or prematurely terminated by many factors, including: (i) limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients for the particular clinical trial; (ii) slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS enrollment; (iii) failure of patients to complete the trial; (iv) inability to obtain sufficient quantities of acceptable materials for use in clinical trials; (v) delay or failure in reaching agreement on contract terms with prospective study sites or other third-party vendors who are supporting our clinical trials; (vi) inability to reach agreement with the FDA on a trial design that we are able to execute; (vii) difficulty in adequately following up with patients after treatment; and (viii) changes in laws, regulations, regulatory policy, or clinical practices. Our ability to enroll appropriate patients for any of our clinical trials also may be adversely affected by trials being conducted by our competitors for similar disease indications. The failure of any clinical trials to meet applicable regulatory standards, or the standards of the relevant reviewing bodies could cause such trials to be delayed, suspended or terminated, which could further delay the development of any of our product candidates. Any such delays increase our product development costs, with the possibility that we could run out of funding. Delays in one clinical trial also can adversely affect our ability to launch clinical trials for similar or different indications. Consequently, if such delays are significant they could negatively affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products. Additionally, clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, an IRB, other regulatory authorities, or by us for a variety of reasons, including safety. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our financial results and commercial prospects for our product candidates. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, and the FDA may not agree with our interpretations, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a trial to be delayed or repeated or a program to be terminated. If successful large-scale manufacturing of gene-based medicines is not possible, we or our collaborators may be unable to manufacture enough of our product candidates to achieve regulatory approval or market our products. Few companies to date have shown successful large-scale manufacturing of gene-based medicines, each of which has had significantly more resources than we and it is anticipated that significant challenges will be faced in the scale-up of our manufacturing process for commercial production. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers qualified to perform large-scale manufacturing of gene-based medicines. We or our collaborators may be unable to manufacture commercial-scale quantities of gene-base medicines or receive appropriate government approvals on a timely basis or at all. Failure to successfully manufacture or obtain appropriate government approvals on a timely basis or at all would prevent us from achieving our business objectives. If regulatory approvals are not obtained for a manufacturing facility for our products, we may experience delays, be unable to meet demand, and may lose potential revenues. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have limited experience manufacturing any of our gene-based products in the volumes that will be necessary to support large-scale clinical trials or commercial sales, and we expect that we will rely on our collaborators for manufacturing capabilities. Before we or our collaborators can begin commercial manufacturing of any of our product candidates, we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facility and process. Manufacturing of our proposed products must comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) requirements and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, we will be obligated to expend time, money, and effort in production, record keeping, and quality control to assure the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We or our collaborators must also pass a preapproval inspection before FDA approval. Significant capital will likely need to be expended on the development of manufacturing capacity for a product candidate even before we know if the FDA will approve the product for commercialization. Furthermore, if we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, our product candidates would not be approved. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS these requirements after approval, we would be subject to possible regulatory action (including warning letters, restrictions on the product, product recalls, suspension or withdrawal of approval, seizures, injunctions, civil fines, and criminal sanctions), and we may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities also have the authority to perform unannounced periodic inspections of our manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for some of our manufacturing materials. Any problems experienced by any of these suppliers could negatively impact our operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and vendors for some of the materials used in the manufacture of our product candidates. Some of these materials are available from only one supplier or vendor. For supply of early clinical trial materials, we rely on one supplier, Life Technologies Corporation, for its cell culture medium and another supplier, Lonza, for custom buffers. The cell culture medium is used to grow the cells within which our product candidates are produced. We do not currently have supply agreements with any of these suppliers. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. We have limited experience with alternative sources of raw materials. Any delay or interruption would likely lead to a delay or interruption of manufacturing operations, which could negatively affect our operations. We face substantial competition from other companies and research institutions that are developing products to treat the same diseases that our product candidates target, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies pursuing other forms of treatment for the diseases our product candidates target. We may also face competition from companies that may develop competing technology internally or acquire it from the government, universities, and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions, which may prevent or limit our product commercialization efforts. Some of our competitors are established companies with greater financial and other resources than ours. Our competitors may succeed in: • Identifying important genes or delivery mechanisms before we do; • Developing products or product candidates earlier than we do; • Forming collaborations before we do or precluding us from forming collaborations with others; • Obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies, for such products more rapidly than we do; • Developing and validating manufacturing processes more rapidly than we do; • Obtaining patent protection to other intellectual property rights that would limit or preclude our ability to use our technologies or develop products; or • Developing products that are safer or more effective than those we develop or propose to develop. While we seek to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy developed by us. In addition, with the March 2010 enactment of the BPCIA, our products may face competition from “biosimilar” products that are approved via an abbreviated process on the basis of a showing that the product is similar to our approved product. The BPCIA provides periods of exclusivity during which abbreviated applications may not be submitted to, or approved by, FDA, but the statute then allows approval by an abbreviated pathway and, if certain standards are met, a finding by FDA that the biosimilar product is interchangeable with the reference product. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars under an abbreviated regulatory approval process in the U.S. or Europe, our products may become 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS subject to additional competition with the attendant pricing pressure. We also could face increased litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our products. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts to compete with us. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining patent protection for our products and other technologies and successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our patent position, like that of other biotechnology firms, is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The laws, rules, and regulations affecting biotechnology patent protection in the U.S. and other countries are uncertain and are currently undergoing review and revision. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the U.S. and other countries might allow others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our products without any compensation to us. Our ability to develop and protect a proprietary position based on biotechnological innovations and technologies involving genes and gene delivery systems, methods of use, production, formulations, and the like is particularly uncertain. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as patent offices in other countries, have often required that patent applications concerning biotechnology-related inventions be limited or narrowed substantially. Our disclosures in our patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability in all cases. In addition, other companies or institutions possess issued patents and have filed and will file patent applications that cover or attempt to cover genes, vectors, cell lines, and methods of making and using gene therapy products that are the same as or similar to the subject matter of our patent applications. For example, while we have pending patent applications pertaining to particular adenovectors that cannot reproduce themselves and adenovectors modified to alter cell binding characteristics, we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications of other companies and institutions relating to the same subject matter. Patents and patent applications of third parties may have priority over our issued patents and our pending or yet to be filed patent applications. Proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and other patent offices to determine who properly lays claim to inventions are costly and time consuming, and we may not win in any such proceedings. The issued patents we already have or may obtain in the future may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other companies or institutions may challenge our or our collaborators’ patents in the United States and in other countries. In the event a company, institution, or researcher infringes upon our or our collaborators’ patent rights, enforcing these rights may be difficult, expensive, and/or time consuming, with no guarantee that our or our collaborators’ patent rights will be upheld. Others may be able to design around these patents or develop unique products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, our competitors may legally challenge our patents and they may be considered invalid. In addition, various components used in developing gene therapy products, such as particular genes, vectors, promoters, cell lines, and construction methods, used by others and by us, are available to the public. As a result, we are unable to obtain patent protection with respect to such components, and third parties can freely use such components. Third parties may develop products using such components that compete with our potential products. Also, with respect to some of our patentable inventions, we or our collaborators have decided not to pursue patent protection outside the United States. Accordingly, our competitors could develop, and receive non-U.S. patent protection for, gene therapies or technologies for which we or our collaborators have or are seeking U.S. patent protection. Our competitors may be free to use these gene therapies or technologies outside the U.S. in the absence of patent protection. We also rely to a limited extent on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we have entered into confidentiality agreements with employees and collaborators, we may not be able to prevent the disclosure or use of our trade secrets. In addition, other companies or institutions may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. If our potential products conflict with intellectual property rights of competitors, universities, or others, then we may be prevented from developing those product candidates. Other companies and institutions have issued patents and have filed or will file patent applications that may issue into patents that cover or attempt to cover genes, vectors, cell lines, and methods of making and using gene and gene-based therapy products used in or similar to our product candidates and technologies. For 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS example, we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications relating to gene delivery for oncology applications, including through the use of adenovectors. It could be alleged that our development of our TNFerade oncology product candidate conflicts with these patents. We also are aware of other issued patents and pending patent applications that relate to various aspects of our manufacture of our product candidates and systems, including TNFerade, and it could be alleged that our manufacture of these product candidates conflicts with these patents. We have not conducted freedom to use patent searches on all aspects of our product candidates or potential product candidates, and we may be unaware of relevant patents and patent applications of third parties. In addition, the freedom to use patent searches that have been conducted may not have identified all relevant issued patents or pending patent applications that could issue into patents, particularly in view of the characterizations of the subject matter of issued patents and pending patent applications, as well as the fact that pending patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for a period of time and, in some circumstances, until issuance as patents. An issued patent gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of validity under U.S. law and under the laws of some other countries. The holder of a patent to which we or our collaborators do not hold a license could bring legal actions against our collaborators or us for damages or to stop us or our collaborators from using the affected technology, which could limit or preclude our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. If any of our potential products are found to infringe a patent of a competitor or third party, we or our collaborators may be required to pay damages and to either obtain a license in order to continue to develop and commercialize the potential products or, at the discretion of the competitor or third party, to stop development and commercialization of the potential products. Since we have concentrated our resources on developing only a limited number of products, the inability to market one of our products would disproportionately affect us as opposed to a competing company with many products in development. We believe there will be significant litigation in our industry regarding intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors have expended and are continuing to expend significant amounts of time, money, and management resources on intellectual property litigation. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, even if we ultimately are successful in such litigation, in view of our limited resources. If we lose our rights to use intellectual property we license from others, or those rights are not enforceable, then our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be harmed. We rely, in part, on licenses to use some technologies material to our business. For example, to create our product candidates we combine our adenovectors with genes intended to produce therapeutic proteins. In most instances we do not own the patents or patent applications that cover these genes and certain methods of use thereof which underlie these licenses. For these genes, we do not control the enforcement of the patents. We rely upon our licensors to properly prosecute and file those patent applications and defend and enforce any issued patents. While many of the licenses under which we have rights provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, the scope of our rights under these and other licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. In addition, our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents and patent applications are subject to our licensors abiding by the terms of those licenses and not terminating them. Any of our licenses may be terminated by the licensor if we are in breach of a term or condition of the license agreement or in certain other circumstances. In addition, some of our licenses require us to achieve specific development milestones. The legal proceedings to obtain, enforce, and defend patents, and litigation of third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend money and could impair our operations. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, both in the United States and in other countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, however, can be highly uncertain and can involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the breadth of claims allowed in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Protecting intellectual property rights can be expensive and time consuming. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Moreover, if a competitor were to file a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, we would have to participate in an interference proceeding before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention. We may be drawn into interferences with third parties or may have to provoke interferences ourselves to challenge third-party patent rights to allow us or our licensees to commercialize products based on our technologies. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management efforts regardless of the results of the litigation. An unfavorable result in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed, or require us to cease using some technologies. Our products and processes may infringe, or be found to infringe, patents not owned or controlled by us. Patents held by others may require us to alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, or stop activities. If relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in the patent. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses, redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, or pay money damages. As a result, our business may suffer if we are not able to obtain licenses at all or on commercially reasonable terms to us or we are required to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Adverse events in the field of gene therapy may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our products or product candidates. Most of our product candidates under development could be broadly described as recombinant DNA therapies. A number of clinical trials are being conducted by other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies involving related therapies, including compounds similar to, or competitive with, our product candidates. The announcement of adverse results from these clinical trials, such as serious adverse events and unexpected side effects attributable to the treatment, or any response by the FDA or other similar regulatory authority to such clinical trials, may impede the timing of our clinical trials, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval, impede our ability to secure additional funding, or negatively influence public perception of our product candidates. As a result, these conditions could harm our business and results of operations and depress the value of our stock. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend, in part, on public acceptance of the use of gene therapies for the prevention or treatment of human disease. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that gene therapy is unsafe, and gene therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Negative public reaction to gene therapy could result in greater government regulation and stricter clinical trial oversight and commercial product labeling requirements of gene therapy products and could cause a decrease in the demand for any products we may develop. Our product candidates involve new technologies and therapeutic approaches in the field of gene therapy, which is a new and evolving field. As discussed above, no gene therapy product has received regulatory approval in the U.S., and adverse events in this field may negatively affect public perception of our product candidates. Even if our product candidates attain regulatory approval, our success will depend upon the medical community, patients, and third-party payers accepting gene therapy products in general, and our product candidates in particular, as medically useful, cost-effective, and safe. In particular, our success will depend upon physicians specializing in the treatment of those diseases that our product candidates target prescribing treatments that involve the use of our product candidates in lieu of, or in addition to, existing treatments they are already familiar with and for which greater clinical data may be available. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our product candidates is established, physicians may elect not to recommend our products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. Furthermore, third-party payers, such as health insurance plans, may be reluctant to authorize and pay for new forms of treatment they may deem expensive and less proven than existing treatments. Even if gene therapy products, and our product candidates in particular, are accepted by the medical community and third-party payers, the public in general, or patients in particular, may be uncomfortable with new therapies, including our product candidates and it could take substantial time for them to accept gene therapy products as a viable treatment alternative, if ever. If gene therapy and our product candidates do not gain widespread acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, even if our product candidates achieve market acceptance, we may not be 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our product candidates or that render them obsolete. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business; any liability or disputes relating to improper handling, storage, or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials, and also produce hazardous waste products. Hazardous chemicals used in our processes include, but are not limited to, flammable solvents such as methanol and ethanol, toxic chemicals such as ethidium bromide and formaldehyde, and corrosive chemicals such as acetic acid and sodium hydroxide. We also use several radioactive compounds, including phosphorous-32, carbon-14, sulfur-35, phosphorous-33, iodine-125, hydrogen-3, and chromium-51. Hazardous biological materials used in our research and development activities include human and animal cell lines and viruses, such as adenoviruses and animals infected with human viruses. Some of the biological material may be novel, including viruses with novel properties. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Although we have general liability insurance, these policies contain exclusions from insurance against claims arising from pollution from chemical or radioactive materials. Our collaborators are working with these types of hazardous materials in connection with our collaborations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury we or our collaborators cause to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, any hazardous materials. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all applicable environmental and occupational health and safety regulations, compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development, or production efforts. Our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements, which can result in significant fluctuation in our revenue from period to period, and our past revenue is therefore not necessarily indicative of our future revenue. Our revenue is exclusively derived from our collaboration agreements with corporate and government partners, under which we may receive grants, milestone payments based on clinical progress, regulatory progress or net sales achievements, royalties, manufacturing revenue or payment for our development activities on behalf of third parties. Significant variations in the timing of receipt of cash payments and our recognition of revenue can result from the timing of clinical, regulatory or sales events which result in milestone payments and the timing and success of the commercial launch of new products by our collaboration partners. The amount of our revenue derived from collaboration agreements in any given period will depend on a number of unpredictable factors, including our ability to find and maintain suitable collaboration partners, the timing of the negotiation and conclusion of collaboration agreements with such partners, whether and when we or our collaboration partner achieve clinical, regulatory and sales milestones, whether the collaboration is exclusive or whether we can seek other partners, the timing of regulatory approvals in one or more major markets and the market introduction of new products or generic versions of the approved product, as well as other factors. If third party payers do not provide payment or reimbursement for our products, those products will not be widely accepted, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Even if a product of ours receives regulatory approval, our success will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from third party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs, and other organizations. Third party payers are 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, and that is expected to continue. Therefore, significant uncertainty exists as to the pricing approvals for, and the payment or reimbursement status of, newly approved healthcare products. Additional federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and any products that we seek to commercialize may not be considered cost-effective and limitations on the amount of reimbursement for our products could be imposed. Adequate third party insurance coverage may not be available for us to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures, including a reduction in reimbursement rates could cause potential corporate collaborators to be less willing or able to pursue research and development programs related to our product candidates. We cannot be certain that, if and when our products become commercialized, the pertinent reimbursement amounts or formulary status for our products will be sufficient to enable us to market and sell our products. Our business involves animal testing and changes in laws, regulations, accepted clinical procedures, or social pressures could restrict our use of animals in testing and adversely affect our research and development efforts. Many of the research and development efforts we sponsor involve the use of laboratory animals. Changes in laws, regulations, or accepted clinical procedures may adversely affect these research and development efforts. Social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or actions against us or our partners by groups or individuals opposed to testing using animals could also adversely affect these research and development efforts. In addition, preclinical animal studies conducted by us or third parties on our behalf may be subject to the United States Department of Agriculture regulations for certain animal species. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend or delay clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Our common stock is at risk for delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. If it is delisted, our stock price and the liquidity of our common stock would be impacted. On May 12, 2010, we received a notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market (NASDAQ) stating that the minimum bid price of our common stock was below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days and that we were therefore not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450. The notification letter stated that we would be afforded 180 calendar days, or until November 8, 2010, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock would have had to meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive business days during the 180 calendar day grace period. In order to obtain additional time to seek to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, on November 1, 2010 we applied to transfer our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market, and such transfer was declared effective as of November 8, 2010. On November 9, 2010, NASDAQ notified us that we would have an additional 180 days, or until May 9, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule while listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ may, in its discretion, require our common stock to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, before determining that we have demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement by May 9, 2011, NASDAQ will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ’s delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Delisting from NASDAQ would adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are seeking stockholder approval of a reverse stock split of our common stock for the purpose of maintaining the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but we may not obtain stockholder approval or it may not have the desired result. We have scheduled a special meeting of our stockholders to seek stockholder approval of a reverse stock split of our common stock for the purpose of raising the per share trading price of our common stock and maintaining the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, there is no assurance that our stockholders will approve the reverse stock split, or even if they do, that it will have the desired result and that we will be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Even if we effect the reverse stock split and maintain our listing, our stock may still have a relatively low trading price, which could hinder our ability to attract institutional or other potential investors. Furthermore, the price per share of our common stock after the reverse stock split may not reflect the reverse stock split and the price per share following the effective time of the reverse stock split may not be maintained for any period of time following the reverse stock split. For example, based on the closing price of our common stock on February 18, 2011 of $0.48 per share, if the one-for-ten reverse stock split was implemented, there can be no assurance that the post-split trading price of our common stock would be $4.80, or even that it would remain above the pre-split trading price. In many cases, the market price of a company’s shares declines after a reverse stock split. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of our common stock following a reverse stock split may be lower than before the reverse stock split. Similarly, the trading liquidity of the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares outstanding after a reverse stock split. Our stock price could continue to be highly volatile and investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other life sciences companies, has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. During 2010, our stock price ranged from $0.44 to $3.17. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • Results of our preclinical studies and future clinical trials or announcements regarding our plans for future studies or trials, or those of our competitors; • Evidence or lack of evidence of the safety or efficacy of our potential products or those of our competitors; • Announcement by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new products; • Developments concerning our patent or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors, including litigation and challenges to our proprietary rights; • Geopolitical developments, natural or man-made disease threats, or other events beyond our control; • U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory actions; • Changes or announcements in reimbursement policies; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • Market conditions for life science stocks in general; • Changes in the collective short interest in our stock; • Changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; and • Our cash balances, need for additional capital, and access to capital. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us because of the decline in our share price since the discontinuation of the PACT trial and because life science companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. To date, we have not been subject 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS to class action litigation. However, in the future we may be the target of this litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business. We depend on our key technical and management personnel to advance our technology, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development of our products. We rely, and will continue to rely, on our key management and scientific staff, all of whom are employed at will. The loss of key personnel or the failure to recruit necessary additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, and other organizations for qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. If we do not succeed in retaining and recruiting necessary personnel or developing this expertise, our business could suffer significantly. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • Establishing a classified board of directors requiring that members of the board be elected in different years, which lengthens the time needed to elect a new majority of the board; • Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares or change the balance of voting control and thwart a takeover attempt; • Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • Limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of the stockholders; • Prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • Establishing 90 to 120 day advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that is beneficial to our stockholders. In November 2001, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger or acquisition beneficial to our stockholders by diluting the ability of a potential acquirer to acquire us. Pursuant to the terms of our plan, when a person or group (except under certain circumstances) acquires 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock or ten business days after commencement or announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquirer’s rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquirer would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. The issuance of debt or equity securities could adversely affect our common stockholders. We have historically raised capital through the issuance of equity securities, and in the future we expect to issue either debt or equity securities to raise additional capital. We have on file an effective shelf registration statement that allows us to raise up to $150.0 million from the sale of common or preferred stock or warrants for the purchase of common or preferred stock. We may also choose to issue either debt or equity securities in offerings not made pursuant to our shelf registration statement. The issuance of debt or equity securities could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock, and reduce the likelihood that our common stockholders will receive dividend payments and payments upon liquidation. The issuance of debt or equity securities could also decrease the market price of our common stock or have terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our shares or that our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 