ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by GenVec, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our product development programs, contract revenues, expenses, net losses and earnings per share. We have a history of losses and anticipate future losses. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in December 1992, including a net loss of $18.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $187.6 million. We are unsure if or when we will become profitable. The size of our net losses will depend, in part, on the growth rate of our revenues and the level of our expenses. We derive substantially all of our revenues from payments from collaborations with corporations and government entities, and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We expect that it will be several years, if ever, before we will recognize revenue from product candidate sales or royalties. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment, and personnel. In addition, we expect to spend significant amounts to fund research and development and to enhance our core technologies. We also expect to incur substantial costs to manufacture our product candidates. As a result, we expect that our operating expenses will increase significantly over the next several years and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis. 19 We will need to raise additional capital to operate our business, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We are focused on clinical product development. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell these products and will not have product revenues from these products. We will require substantial additional funds to conduct research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and other activities prior to the commercialization of any potential products, and our ability to access capital depends on several factors beyond our control. We anticipate that such funds will be obtained from external sources and intend to seek additional equity, debt, or lease financing or collaborative agreements with corporate, governmental, or academic collaborators to fund future operations. Our actual capital requirements will depend on, and could increase as a result of, many factors, including but not limited to: · the progress and scope of our internally funded research, development, clinical, manufacturing and commercialization activities; · our ability to establish new collaborations and the terms of those collaborations; · competing technological and market developments; · the time and cost of regulatory approvals; · the extent to which we choose to commercialize our products internally; · the costs we incur in obtaining, defending and enforcing patent and other proprietary rights or gaining the freedom to operate under the patents of others; and · the extent to which we choose to develop our manufacturing capability. If we experience unanticipated cash requirements, we may need to seek additional sources of funding, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such additional funding may only be available on terms that may cause dilution to common stockholders, have liquidation preferences and/or pre-emptive rights. From time to time, we may seek to access the public or private debt and equity markets. We also may seek to raise additional capital through outlicensing technologies or third-party collaborations. Alternatively, we may need to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish rights to technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. These arrangements could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow or future prospects. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research, development, manufacturing or clinical activities or be required to sell or merge the company or otherwise substantially modify or cease some or all of our current operations. We are a clinical stage company deploying unproven technologies, and we may never be able to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, or market any of our product candidates. Gene-based products are new and rapidly evolving medical approaches, which have not been shown to be effective on a widespread basis. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have successfully developed and commercialized only a limited number of gene-based products to date. In addition, no gene therapy product has received regulatory approval in the United States. To date, none of our product candidates has been approved for sale in the United States or elsewhere. Gene-based products may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects from genes or the delivery systems, unintended immune responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy, or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval or commercial use. Successful products require significant development and investment, including a lengthy and uncertain period of testing to show their safety and effectiveness before their regulatory approval or commercialization. We have not proven our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, or commercialize gene-based medicines or vaccines. We may be unable to successfully select those genes or antigens with the most potential for commercial development. 20 If we fail to adequately show the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, we will not be able to obtain FDA approval of our product candidates. We face the risk of failure involved in developing therapies based on new technologies. While certain of our product candidates are in clinical trials, there are others for which we have not yet initiated clinical trials. For those product candidates not yet in clinical trials, we will need to conduct significant additional research and animal testing, referred to as preclinical testing, before any of these product candidates can advance to clinical trials. In addition, we will need to conduct further clinical testing of those product candidates currently in clinical trials. It may take us many years to complete preclinical testing or trials and failure could occur at any stage of testing. Acceptable results in early testing or trials might not be repeated later. Not all products in preclinical testing or early stage clinical trials will become approved products. Before we can file applications with the FDA for product approval, we must show that a particular product candidate is safe and effective. Even with respect to those product candidates currently in clinical trials, we must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of those product candidates before we can secure FDA approval. Our failure to adequately show the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates would prevent FDA approval of our products. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or regulatory approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If the delays are significant, they could negatively affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. Because we must obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the United States and in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products; failure to comply with applicable regulations can also harm our business and operations. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by a wide range of authorities. We cannot predict whether we will obtain regulatory approval for any product we develop. No one can market a pharmaceutical product in the United States until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials of the product and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA. To date, the FDA has not approved a gene therapy product for sale in the United States. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. Before commencing clinical trials, we must submit to the FDA and receive approval from the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application (IND). Clinical trials are subject to continuing oversight by Institutional Review Boards (IRB) and the FDA. Clinical trials are also subject to: · informed consent; · good clinical practices (GCP); and · potential suspension or termination by us, the IRB, or the FDA at any time if, among other reasons, it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the IND or the conduct of these trials. We may encounter delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process because of additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. For instance, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA new authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety, (3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, and (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease indications for which the product has shown through clinical trials to be safe and effective. The FDA also strictly regulates promotion and labeling after approval. Outside the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving clearances from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This non-U.S. regulatory approval process includes risks similar to those associated with FDA clearance described above. 21 Almost all of our revenue is derived from agreements with government agencies. These agreements are subject to termination and uncertain future funding. A substantial portion of our revenues is dependent upon continued funding of U.S. government agencies. Any significant reductions in the funding of U.S. government agencies or in the funding areas targeted by our businesses could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into agreements with government agencies, such as the NIH, DHS, and NMRC and we intend to continue entering into these agreements in the future. Our business is partially dependent on the continued performance by these government agencies of their responsibilities under these agreements, which in turn is dependent upon adequate continued funding of the agencies and their programs. We have no control over the resources and funding government agencies may devote to these agreements, which may be subject to annual renewal and which generally may be terminated by the government agencies at any time. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations to deliver in the manner required by the agreement, the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations allow the government to cancel the agreement in whole or in part, and we may be required to perform corrective actions, including but not limited to delivering to the government any uncompleted or partially completed work. The performance of these corrective actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial results in the period or periods affected. Government agencies may fail to perform their responsibilities under these agreements, which could materially impact our financial results. In addition, our contract related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs, are subject to audits and adjustments by negotiation between us and the U.S. government. As part of the audit process, the government audit agency verifies that all charges made by a contractor against a contract are legitimate and appropriate. Audits may result in recalculation of contract revenues and non-reimbursement of some contract costs and fees. Any audits of our contract related costs and fees could result in material adjustments to our revenues. In addition, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take several years. Consequently, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Any failure of such agencies to continue to fund such contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We apply for and have received funding from government agencies under Small Business Technology Transfer, or STTR, and Small Business Innovation Research, or SBIR, grants. Eligibility of public companies to receive such grants is based on size and ownership criteria which are under review by the Small Business Administration, or SBA. As a result, our eligibility may change in the future, and additional funding from this source may not be available. Agreements with government agencies may lead to claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act, and these claims could result in substantial fines and other penalties. The biopharmaceuticals industry is, and in recent years has been, under heightened scrutiny as the subject of government investigations and enforcement actions. Our Agreements with the U.S. Government are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the Federal Civil False Claims Act. Under the False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions, private enforcement of fraud claims against businesses on behalf of the U.S. Government has increased due in part to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by private individuals, including present and former employees. The False Claims Act statute provides for treble damages and up to $11,000 per false claim. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws, or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, exclusions, curtailment, or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in conducting our clinical trials. Clinical trials for the product candidates we are developing may be delayed by many factors, including a (i) limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients for the particular clinical trial; (ii) slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment; and/or (iii) failure of patients to complete the trial. We have experienced delays in enrolling patients into our TNFerade clinical trials and may have additional delays as we seek to expand enrollment. Our ability to enroll appropriate patients for any of our clinical trials also may be adversely affected by trials being conducted by our competitors for similar disease indications. The failure of any clinical trials to meet applicable regulatory standards or the standards of the relevant reviewing bodies could cause such trials to be delayed, suspended or terminated, which could further delay the development of any of our product candidates. Any such delays increase our product development costs, with the possibility that we could run out of funding. Delays in one clinical trial also can adversely affect our ability to launch clinical trials for similar or different indications. Consequently, if such delays are significant they could negatively affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products. 22 Additionally, our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, an IRB, other regulatory authorities, or by us for a variety of reasons, including for safety reasons. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our financial results and commercial prospects for our product candidates. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, and the FDA may not agree with our interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a trial to be delayed or repeated, or a program to be terminated. We depend on clinical trial arrangements with public and private medical institutions to advance our technology, and the loss of these arrangements could impair the development of our products. We have arrangements with a number of public and private medical institutions, and individual investigators, for the conduct of human clinical trials for our clinical product candidates including TNFerade. In some cases, trials may be conducted by institutions without our direct control or monitoring. The early termination of any of these clinical trial arrangements, the failure of these institutions to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials, or reliance upon results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder the progress of our clinical trial programs or our development decisions. If any of these relationships are terminated, the clinical trials might not be completed, and the results might not be evaluable. Our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize our potential products depends, in part, on collaborations with other companies and government entities. If we are unable to find collaborators, we may not be able to develop, test, and commercialize our products. To date, we have entered into collaborative agreements only with a limited number of companies and government entities, and some of those are no longer in effect. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and sustain collaborations with other companies for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Unless we are able to enter into and sustain collaboration agreements, we will need to raise additional funds for the development, testing, and commercialization of our product candidates. If collaborations or other funding is not available, we may have to delay or curtail the development and commercialization of certain product candidates. We cannot be sure that our collaborators will perform as expected, and collaborations might produce conflicts that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our potential product candidates and negatively impact our business and financial condition. We cannot control the resources that any collaborator may devote to our products. Our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. In addition, our collaborators may elect not to develop products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or to devote sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, manufacture, marketing, or sale of these products. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop our technologies or commercialize our products. 23 An important part of our strategy involves conducting multiple product development programs. We may pursue opportunities in fields that conflict with those of our collaborators. In addition, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over rights to our intellectual property. The resolution of such conflicts and disagreements may affect ownership of intellectual property that we believe we are entitled to. In addition, any disagreement or conflict with our collaborators could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationship with existing collaborators. Such a conflict or disagreement could also lead to delays in collaborative research, development, regulatory approval or commercialization of various products or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive and could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our collaboration agreements may prohibit us from conducting research in areas that may compete with our collaboration products, while our collaborators may not be limited to the same extent. This could negatively affect our ability to develop products and, ultimately, prevent us from achieving a continuing source of revenues. We anticipate that some of our corporate or academic collaborators will be conducting multiple product development efforts within each disease area that is the subject of their collaborations with us. In certain circumstances we have agreed not to conduct independently, or with any third party, certain research and development activities that are competitive with the research and development activities conducted under our collaborations. Therefore, our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Some of our collaborators, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of their collaborations with us. In addition, competing products, either developed by the collaborators or to which the collaborators have rights, may result in their withdrawing support for our product candidates. Generally under our academic collaborations, we retain the right to non-exclusively or exclusively license any technologies developed using funding we provided. If we elect to not license a particular technology, the academic collaborator is typically free to use or license to others the technology for any purpose, including the development and commercialization of products that might compete with our products. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility for our products, we may experience delays, and be unable to meet demand, and may lose potential revenues. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have limited experience manufacturing any of our gene-based products in the volumes that will be necessary to support large-scale clinical trials or commercial sales. We do not yet know the extent to which we will be able to develop our Gaithersburg manufacturing facilities and processes for the manufacture of gene therapy product candidates. Efforts to establish capabilities, if pursued, may not meet initial expectations as to scheduling, reproducibility, yield, purity, cost, potency, or quality. If we are unable to manufacture our product candidates in clinical quantities or, when necessary, commercial quantities, then we will need to rely on third parties to manufacture compounds for clinical and commercial purposes. These third-party manufacturers must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial products. Our products may compete with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any necessary third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis. There are very few contract manufacturers who currently have the capability to produce our proposed products, and the inability of any of these contract manufacturers to deliver our required quantities of product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices would negatively affect our operations. Before we or our collaborators can begin commercial manufacturing of any of our product candidates, we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facility and process. Manufacturing of our proposed products must comply with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices requirements, commonly known as cGMP, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We or our collaborators must also pass a pre-approval inspection before FDA approval. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, our product candidates would not be approved. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements after approval, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities also have the authority to perform unannounced periodic inspections of our manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. 24 If successful large-scale manufacturing of gene-based medicines is not possible, we may be unable to manufacture enough of our product candidates to achieve regulatory approval or market our products. Few companies to date have shown successful large-scale manufacturing of gene-based medicines, each of which has had significantly more resources than we and it is anticipated that significant challenges will be faced in the scale-up of our manufacturing process for commercial production. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers qualified to perform large-scale manufacturing of gene-based medicines. We may be unable to manufacture commercial-scale quantities of gene-base medicines or receive appropriate government approvals on a timely basis or at all. Failure to successfully manufacture or obtain appropriate government approvals on a timely basis or at all would prevent us from achieving our business objectives. We may experience difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, which are beyond our control and could harm our business, because we rely on third-party manufacturers. We currently expect to produce our product candidates through third-party manufacturers. Problems with any manufacturing processes could result in product defects, which could require us to delay shipment of products or recall products previously shipped. In addition, any prolonged interruption in the operations of our or a third party’s manufacturing facilities could result in the cancellation of shipments. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including equipment malfunctions or process failures, or damage to a facility due to natural disasters or otherwise. Because our manufacturing processes are or are expected to be highly complex and subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our manufacturing could increase our costs and damage our reputation. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products can be an expensive, time-consuming, and complex process. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling-up production of new products, including problems involving the transfer of manufacturing technology, production yields, quality control and assurance, and shortages of personnel. Delays in formulation and scale-up to commercial quantities could result in additional expense and delays in our clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for some of our manufacturing materials. Any problems experienced by any of these suppliers could negatively impact our operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and vendors for some of the materials used in the manufacture of our product candidates. Some of these materials are available from only one supplier or vendor. For supply of early clinical trial materials, we rely on one supplier, Invitrogen Corporation, for its cell culture medium and another supplier, Cambrex, for custom buffers. The cell culture medium is used to grow the cells within which our product candidates are produced. For our supply of late-stage clinical trial materials, we currently are planning to use purification resins from the Applied Biosystems Group of Applera Corporation and the BioSepra S.A. Process Division of Pall Corporation. We do not currently have supply agreements with any of these suppliers. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. We have limited experience with alternative sources of raw materials. Any delay or interruption would likely lead to a delay or interruption of manufacturing operations, which could negatively affect our operations. 25 If we are unable to enter into collaborations with marketing partners or develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may not be successful in commercializing our products. We currently have limited sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities. As a result, we will depend on collaborations with third parties that have established distribution systems and direct sales forces. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of third parties, over which we may have little or no control. If we are unable to reach and maintain agreements with one or more pharmaceutical companies or collaborators, we may be required to market our products directly. In any case we may elect to establish our own specialized sales force and marketing organization to market our products to physicians. In order to do this, we would have to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capability. Developing a marketing and sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay a product launch. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain qualified sales personnel or otherwise develop this capability. We face substantial competition from other companies and research institutions that are developing products to treat the same diseases that our product candidates target, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are pursuing other forms of treatment for the diseases that our product candidates target. We may also face competition from companies that may develop competing technology internally or acquire it from the government, universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions, which may prevent or limit our product commercialization efforts. Some of our competitors are established companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Our competitors may succeed in: · identifying important genes or delivery mechanisms before we do; · developing products or product candidates earlier than we do; · forming collaborations before we do, or precluding us from forming collaborations with others; · obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for such products more rapidly than we do; · developing and validating manufacturing processes more rapidly than we do; · obtaining patent protection to other intellectual property rights that would limit or preclude our ability to use our technologies or develop products; or · developing products that are safer or more effective than those we develop or propose to develop. While we seek to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy developed by us. In addition, our products may face competition from “generic biologics,” i.e., biologics products that are approved via an abbreviated process, on the basis of a showing that the product is the same as (or perhaps similar to) our approved product, rather than on an independent demonstration of the new product’s safety and effectiveness. Although no such abbreviated approval pathway currently exists in the U.S. for biologics, representatives of the FDA and members of Congress have expressed the view that such approvals should be allowed, and federal legislation has been introduced to establish a legal pathway to approve generic versions of approved BLA products. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for generic biologics, our products may become subject to additional competition, with the attendant pricing pressure. We also could face increased litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our products. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts to compete with us. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent protection for our products and other technologies and successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our patent position, like that of other biotechnology firms, is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The laws, rules, and regulations affecting biotechnology patent protection in the United States and other countries are uncertain and is currently undergoing review and revision. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries might allow others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our products without any compensation to us. 26 Our ability to develop and protect a proprietary position based on biotechnological innovations and technologies involving genes and gene delivery systems, methods of use, production, formulations and the like is particularly uncertain. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as the patent offices in other countries, have often required that patent applications concerning biotechnology-related inventions be limited or narrowed substantially. Our disclosures in our patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability in all cases. In addition, other companies or institutions possess issued patents and have filed and will file patent applications that cover or attempt to cover genes, vectors, cell lines, and methods of making and using gene therapy products that are the same as or similar to the subject matter of our patent applications. For example, while we have pending patent applications pertaining to particular adenovectors that cannot reproduce themselves, and adenovectors modified to alter cell binding characteristics, we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications of other companies and institutions relating to the same subject matter. Patents and patent applications of third parties may have priority over our issued patents and our pending or yet to be filed patent applications. Proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and other patent offices to determine who properly lays claim to inventions are costly and time consuming, and we may not win in any such proceedings. The issued patents we already have or may obtain in the future may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other companies or institutions may challenge our or our collaborators’ patents in the United States and other countries. In the event a company, institution or researcher infringes upon our or our collaborators’ patent rights, enforcing these rights may be difficult and can be expensive and time consuming, with no guarantee that our or our collaborators’ patent rights will be upheld. Others may be able to design around these patents or develop unique products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, our competitors may legally challenge our patents and they may be held to be invalid. In addition, various components used in developing gene therapy products, such as particular genes, vectors, promoters, cell lines and construction methods, used by others and us, are available to the public. As a result, we are unable to obtain patent protection with respect to such components, and third parties can freely use such components. Third parties may develop products using such components that compete with our potential products. Also, with respect to some of our patentable inventions, we or our collaborators have decided not to pursue patent protection outside the United States. Accordingly, our competitors could develop, and receive non-U.S. patent protection for, gene therapies or technologies for which we or our collaborators have or are seeking U.S. patent protection. Our competitors may be free to use these gene therapies or technologies outside the United States in the absence of patent protection. We also rely to a limited extent on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we have entered into confidentiality agreements with employees and collaborators, we may not be able to prevent the disclosure or use of our trade secrets. In addition, other companies or institutions may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. If our potential products conflict with intellectual property rights of competitors, universities or others, then we may be prevented from developing those product candidates. Other companies and institutions have issued patents and have filed or will file patent applications that may issue into patents that cover or attempt to cover genes, vectors, cell lines and methods of making and using gene and gene-based therapy products used in or similar to our product candidates and technologies. For example, we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications relating to gene delivery for oncology applications, including through the use of adenovectors. It could be alleged that our development of our TNFerade oncology product candidate conflicts with these patents. We also are aware of other issued patents and pending patent applications that relate to various aspects of our manufacture of our product candidates and systems, including TNFerade, and it could be alleged that our manufacture of these product candidates conflict with these patents. We have not conducted freedom to use patent searches on all aspects of our product candidates or potential product candidates, and we may be unaware of relevant patents and patent applications of third parties. In addition, the freedom to use patent searches that have been conducted may not have identified all relevant issued patents or pending patent applications that could issue into patents, particularly in view of the characterizations of the subject matter of issued patents and pending patent applications, as well as the fact that pending patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for a period of time and, in some circumstances, until issuance as patents. 27 An issued patent gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of validity under U.S. law and the laws of some other countries. The holder of a patent to which we or our collaborators do not hold a license could bring legal actions against our collaborators or us for damages or to stop us or our collaborators from using the affected technology, which could limit or preclude our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. If any of our potential products are found to infringe a patent of a competitor or third party, we or our collaborators may be required to pay damages and to either obtain a license in order to continue to develop and commercialize the potential products or, at the discretion of the competitor or third party, to stop development and commercialization of the potential products. Since we have concentrated our resources on developing only a limited number of products, the inability to market one of our products would disproportionately affect us as opposed to a competing company with many products in development. We believe that there will be significant litigation in our industry regarding intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors have expended and are continuing to expend significant amounts of time, money and management resources on intellectual property litigation. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, even if we ultimately are successful in such litigation, in view of our limited resources. If we lose our rights to use intellectual property we license from others, or those rights are not enforceable, then our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be harmed. We rely, in part, on licenses to use some technologies that are material to our business. For example, to create our product candidates we combine our adenovectors with genes intended to produce therapeutic proteins. In most instances we do not own the patents or patent applications that cover these genes and certain methods of use thereof which underlie these licenses. For these genes, we do not control the enforcement of the patents. We rely upon our licensors to properly prosecute and file those patent applications and defend and enforce any issued patents. While many of the licenses under which we have rights provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, the scope of our rights under these and other licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. In addition, our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents and patent applications are subject to our licensors abiding by the terms of those licenses and not terminating them. Any of our licenses may be terminated by the licensor if we are in breach of a term or condition of the license agreement, or in certain other circumstances. In addition, some of our licenses require us to achieve specific development milestones. The legal proceedings to obtain, enforce, and defend patents, and litigation of third party claims of intellectual property infringement, could require us to spend money and could impair our operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, both in the United States and in other countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, however, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the breadth of claims allowed in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields. Protecting intellectual property rights can be expensive and time consuming. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Moreover, if a competitor were to file a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, we would have to participate in an interference proceeding before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention. We may be drawn into interferences with third parties or may have to provoke interferences ourselves to challenge third party patent rights to allow us or our licensees to commercialize products based on our technologies. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management efforts regardless of the results of the litigation. An unfavorable result in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed or require us to cease using some technologies. Our products and processes may infringe, or be found to infringe, patents not owned or controlled by us. Patents held by others may require us to alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, or stop activities. If relevant claims of third party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in the patent. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses, redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, or pay money damages. As a result, our business may suffer if we are not able to obtain licenses at all or on commercially reasonable terms to us or we are required to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. 28 Adverse events in the field of gene therapy may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our products or product candidates. TNFerade therapy and most of our other product candidates under development could be broadly described as recombinant DNA therapies. A number of clinical trials are being conducted by other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies involving related therapies, including compounds similar to, or competitive with, our product candidates. The announcement of adverse results from these clinical trials, such as serious adverse events and unexpected side effects attributable to the treatment, or any response by the FDA or other similar regulatory authority to such clinical trials, may impede the timing of our clinical trials, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval, impede our ability to secure additional funding or negatively influence public perception of our product candidates. As a result, these conditions could harm our business and results of operations and depress the value of our stock. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of gene therapies for the prevention or treatment of human disease. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that gene therapy is unsafe, and gene therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Negative public reaction to gene therapy could result in greater government regulation and stricter clinical trial oversight and commercial product labeling requirements of gene therapy products and could cause a decrease in the demand for any products we may develop. Our product candidates involve new technologies and therapeutic approaches in the field of gene therapy, which is a new and evolving field. As discussed above, no gene therapy product has received regulatory approval in the U.S., and adverse events in this field may negatively affect public perception of our product candidates. Even if our product candidates attain regulatory approval, our success will depend upon the medical community, patients and third party payors accepting gene therapy products in general, and our product candidates in particular, as medically useful, cost-effective and safe. In particular, our success will depend upon physicians specializing in the treatment of those diseases that our product candidates target prescribing treatments that involve the use of our product candidates in lieu of, or in addition to, existing treatments that they are already familiar with and for which greater clinical data may be available. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our product candidates is established, physicians may elect not to recommend our products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Further, third party payors, such as health insurance plans, may be reluctant to authorize and pay for new forms of treatment that they may deem expensive and less proven than existing treatments. Even if gene therapy products, and our product candidates in particular, are accepted by the medical community and third-party payors, the public in general, or patients in particular, may be uncomfortable with new therapies, including our product candidates, and it could take substantial time for them to accept gene therapy products as a viable treatment alternative, if ever. If gene therapy and our product candidates do not gain widespread acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, even if our product candidates achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our product candidates or that render them obsolete. We may face liability claims related to the use or misuse of our drug candidates in clinical trials. If our insurance coverage is not sufficient, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product, that is made with the use or incorporation of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, or sale. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: · withdrawal of product candidates from our clinical trials; · withdrawal of our products from the market, if they have been approved; · damage to our reputation; · costs of litigation; · substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs; and · decreased demand for our products or product candidates. 29 Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. We have obtained liability coverage for clinical trials. However, we cannot be certain that our insurance policies will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. We may need to increase our coverage as we progress into late stage clinical trials and/or eventual commercial sale. Liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Generally, our clinical trials will be conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our drug candidates. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Any such claim against us, regardless of its merit, could result in a significant award against us that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business; any liability or disputes relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials, and also produce hazardous waste products. Hazardous chemicals used in our processes include, but are not limited to, flammable solvents such as methanol and ethanol, toxic chemicals such as ethidium bromide and formaldehyde, and corrosive chemicals such as acetic acid and sodium hydroxide. We also use several radioactive compounds, including phosphorous-32, carbon-14, sulfur-35, phosphorous-33, iodine-125, hydrogen-3, and chromium-51. The hazardous biological materials used in our research and development activities include human and animal cell lines and viruses, such as adenoviruses, and animals infected with human viruses. Some of the biological material may be novel, including viruses with novel properties. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Although we have general liability insurance, these policies contain exclusions from insurance against claims arising from pollution from chemical or radioactive materials. Our collaborators are working with these types of hazardous materials in connection with our collaborations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury we or our collaborators cause to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, any hazardous materials. Although, we believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable environmental and occupational health and safety regulations, compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. If reforms in the health care industry make reimbursement for our potential products less likely, the market for our potential products will be reduced, and we will lose potential sources of revenue. Our success may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of therapeutic products and related treatments will be available from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs, and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party health care payors to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products. Similar federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and any products that we seek to commercialize may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party insurance coverage may not be available for us to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures, including a reduction in reimbursement rates could cause potential corporate collaborators to be less willing or able to pursue research and development programs related to our product candidates. We cannot be certain that, if and when our products become commercialized, the pertinent reimbursement amounts or formulary status for our products will be sufficient to enable us to market and sell our products. 30 Our business involves animal testing and changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures or social pressures could restrict our use of animals in testing and adversely affect our research and development efforts. Many of the research and development efforts we sponsor involve the use of laboratory animals. Changes in laws, regulations, or accepted clinical procedures may adversely affect these research and development efforts. Social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or actions against us or our partners by groups or individuals opposed to testing using animals could also adversely affect these research and development efforts. In addition, preclinical animal studies conducted by us or third parties on our behalf may be subject to the United States Department of Agriculture regulations for certain animal species. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend or delay clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Current healthcare laws may negatively affect our ability to obtain patient information for research purposes. U.S. Federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain health information, in particular individually identifiable information, and restrict the use and disclosure of that information. At the federal level, the Department of Health and Human Services promulgated health information privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These rules protect health information by regulating its use and disclosure, including for research purposes. Failure of a HIPAA “covered entity” (such as a hospital) to comply with HIPAA could constitute a violation of federal law, subject to civil and criminal penalties. We are not directly subject to HIPAA as a “covered entity,” however. Nevertheless, because conduct by a person that may not be prosecuted directly under HIPAA’s criminal provisions could potentially be prosecuted under aiding and abetting or conspiracy laws, we are unable to determine whether our actions could be subject to prosecution in the event of an impermissible disclosure of data to us. In addition, many state laws apply to the use and disclosure of health information, which could affect the manner in which we conduct our research and development, as well as other aspects of our operations. Moreover, such laws are not necessarily preempted by HIPAA, in particular those state laws that afford greater privacy protection to the individual than HIPAA. Such state laws may have their own penalty provisions, which could be applied in the event of an unlawful action affecting health information. Our stock price could continue to be highly volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other life sciences companies, has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. From January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, our stock price has ranged from $1.37 to $4.51. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: · the results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials or announcements regarding our plans for future studies or trials, or those of our competitors; · evidence or lack of evidence of the safety or efficacy of our potential products or those of our competitors; · the announcement by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new products; · developments concerning our patent or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors, including litigation and challenges to our proprietary rights; · geopolitical developments, natural or man-made disease threats, or other events beyond our control; 31 · U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory actions; · changes or announcements in reimbursement policies; · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; · market conditions for life science stocks in general; · changes in the collective short interest in our stock; · changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; and · our cash balances, need for additional capital, and access to capital. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Recently our stock has traded below $1.00, and if we fail to comply with the listing standards applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us because life science companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. To date, we have not been subject to class action litigation. However, we may in the future be the target of this litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date, and we have no intention of declaring dividends in the foreseeable future. The decision to pay cash dividends on our common stock rests with our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and financial condition. We do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future, as we intend to use any excess cash to fund our operations. Investors in our common stock should not expect to receive dividend income on their investment, and investors will be dependent on the appreciation of our common stock to earn a return on their investment. We depend on our key technical and management personnel to advance our technology, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development of our products. We rely and will continue to rely on our key management and scientific staff, all of whom are employed at-will. The loss of key personnel or the failure to recruit necessary additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. If we do not succeed in retaining and recruiting necessary personnel or developing this expertise, our business could suffer significantly. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: 32 · establishing a classified board of directors requiring that members of the board be elected in different years, which lengthens the time needed to elect a new majority of the board; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares or change the balance of voting control and thwart a takeover attempt; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of the stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and · establishing 90 to 120 day advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that is beneficial to our stockholders. In November 2001, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that is beneficial to our stockholders by diluting the ability of a potential acquirer to acquire us. Pursuant to the terms of our plan, when a person or group, except under certain circumstances, acquires 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after commencement or announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 20 percent or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquirer’s rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquirer would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. The issuance of debt or preferred stock could adversely affect our common stockholders. We have on file an effective shelf registration statement that allows us to raise up to $100 million from the sale of common or preferred stock, debt, or warrants for the purchase of common or preferred stock. The issuance of debt or preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock, and reduce the likelihood that our common stockholders will receive dividend payments and payments upon liquidation. The issuance of debt or preferred stock could also decrease the market price of our common stock, or have terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our shares or that our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report, a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. We initially became subject to these requirements for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Growth of our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and infrastructure, including our information systems. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, and any modifications necessary to reflect changes in our business, will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting), our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. 33 ITEM1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 