Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- The following is a summary of what the Company perceives to be the material risks related to an investment in the Company's securities. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest rate spread and net interest margin, which could hurt our earnings. We derive our income mainly from the difference or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Several years ago market interest rates were at historically low levels. However, between June 2004 and June 2007, the U.S. Federal Reserve steadily increased its target federal funds rate, raising it 17 times, from 1.00% to 5.25%. While the federal funds rate and other short-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to our deposit pricing, increased, intermediate- and long-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to our loan pricing, did not increased proportionately. This led to a "flattening" of the market yield curve, which even "inverted" at times as short-term rates exceeded long-term rates over an intermediate maturity horizon. The relatively flat yield curve has hurt our net interest rate spread and net interest margin because the interest rates we pay on our deposits have repriced upwards faster than the interest rates that we earn on our loans and investments. The federal funds rate was lowered in September, October, and December 2007, for an aggregate decrease of 100 basis points. At present, the curve continues, however, to be relatively flat. Interest rates also affect how much money we lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. A portion of our total loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate mortgage loans, commercial loans and construction loans. The repayment risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate mortgage loans, commercial loans and construction loans. Unlike single family or one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income, and which are secured by real property with values that tend to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrowers' business, which may include rental income. The repayment of construction loans for residential and commercial land acquisition and development, including loans to builders and developers, is dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate construction project. In addition, commercial real estate mortgages and construction loans to builders and developers generally result in larger balances to single borrowers, or related groups of borrowers, than one- to four-family loans. 19 Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans, and price competition for deposits might result in a decrease in our total deposits or higher rates on our deposits. Our business is geographically concentrated in southeastern Louisiana, and a downturn in conditions in this market area could have an adverse impact on our profitability. A substantial amount of our loans are to individuals and businesses in our primary market area. The regional economy is dependent to a certain extent on the oil and gas, seafood and agricultural (primarily sugar cane) industries. These industries are cyclical in nature and have a direct impact on the level and performance of the Bank's loan portfolio. Economic downturns in the past have caused a decrease in loan originations and an increase in nonperforming assets. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. If management's assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses or if we are required to make material additions to the allowance, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- Not applicable. 20 