Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the common stock of BKFC is subject to certain risks inherent in the business of BKFC and the Bank. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect BKFC and the Bank are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing BKFC or the Bank. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the business operations of BKFC or the Bank. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, the financial condition and results of operations of BKFC or the Bank could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of BKFC’s common stock could decline significantly. References to “we,” “us,” and “our” in this “Risk Factors” section refer to BKFC and its subsidiaries, including the Bank, unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires. Our success depends upon the general economic conditions in the area in which we operate. Our success depends upon the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Our operations are concentrated in the northern Kentucky area. As a result, local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services, as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Bank’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions could increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank’s products and services, or decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to intense competition with other financial institutions that could adversely affect our business. The Bank competes for deposits with other commercial banks, savings associations and credit unions and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. The primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates and convenience of office locations. In making loans, the Bank competes with other banks, savings associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, leasing companies and other lenders. The Bank competes for loan originations primarily through the interest rates and loan fees it charges and through the efficiency and quality of services it provides to borrowers. Competition is affected by, among other things, the general availability of lendable funds, general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels and other factors that are not readily predictable. 20 Table of Contents Due to the Bank’s size relative to the many other financial institutions in its market area, management believes that the Bank does not have a substantial share of the deposit and loan markets. Many of the institutions against whom we compete are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our nonresidential real estate loans expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, $429 million, or 42%, of our loan portfolio consisted of nonresidential real estate loans. Nonresidential real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by collateral that may depreciate over time. These loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Because such loans generally entail greater risk than residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our nonresidential real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. During 2008, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In the third quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, BKFC’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. BKFC’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain our ability to make new loans, to meet our existing lending commitments and, ultimately, jeopardize our overall liquidity and capitalization. In response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets and the potential threats to the solvency of investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. government has taken unprecedented actions. These actions include the government assisted acquisition of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase, the federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the plan of the United States Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury Department”) to inject capital and to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets or particular financial institutions. Investors should not assume that these governmental actions will necessarily benefit the financial markets in general, or BKFC in particular. BKFC could also be adversely impacted if one or more of its direct competitors are beneficiaries of selective governmental interventions (such as FDIC-assisted transactions) and BKFC does not receive comparable assistance. Further, investors should not assume that the government will continue to intervene in the financial markets at all. Investors should be aware that governmental intervention (or the lack thereof) could materially and adversely affect BKFC’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require further additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce net income. If our borrowers do not repay their loans or if the collateral securing their loans is insufficient to provide for the full repayment, we may suffer credit losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses. If we determine that our allowance for loan losses is insufficient, we would be required to take additional provisions for loan losses, which would reduce net income during the period those provisions are taken. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to charge off particular loans. 21 Table of Contents Any changes in our accounting policies and estimates could adversely affect our business. Our management makes judgments and assumptions in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different from amounts previously estimated. Management has identified the accounting policy related to the allowance for loan losses as critical to the understanding of BKFC’s results of operations. See “Item 1 – Allowance for Loan Losses” and “Item 7 – Critical Accounting Policies” for additional discussion regarding these critical accounting policies. Because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates, management cannot provide any assurance that the Bank will not significantly increase its allowance for loan losses if actual losses are more than the amount reserved. Any increase in its allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk. The Bank’s financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Bank’s earnings depend primarily upon its net interest income, which is the difference between its interest income earned on its interest-earning assets, such as mortgage loans and investment securities, and its interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities, consisting of deposits and borrowings. Management cannot predict or control changes in interest rates, which are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Although the Bank has implemented an asset and liability management strategy designed to maintain a reasonable degree of interest rate sensitivity (as more fully described in “Item 1 – Asset/Liability Management”), at any given time the Bank’s assets and liabilities will likely be affected differently by a given change in interest rates, principally because asset and liability re-pricing do not coincide. Changes in interest rates may also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on the Bank’s loans and the level of financing or refinancing by customers. While management and the Board of Directors of the Bank intend to continue to implement our asset and liability management strategy and monitor interest rate risk, there can be no assurance as to whether such measures will be entirely effective in mitigating the Bank’s exposure to interest rate risk. We are subject to intensive government regulation and supervision. BKFC and the Bank are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of BKFC and the Bank. See “Item 1 – “Regulation of BKFC” and “Regulation of the Bank” for additional discussion regarding government regulation. Any change in applicable federal or state laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on BKFC and the Bank. While it is not reasonably predictable what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on BKFC and the Bank, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could also adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect BKFC’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which established the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”), was enacted on October 3, 2008. As part of the TARP, the Treasury Department created the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), under which the Treasury Department will invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) was enacted as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect BKFC’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. In addition, there have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following the EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury Department, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; a mandatory “stress test” requirement for banking institutions with assets in excess of $100 billion to analyze capital sufficiency and risk exposure; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. However, the EESA, the ARRA and any current or future legislative or regulatory initiatives may not have their desired effect, or may have an adverse effect when applied to BKFC. 22 Table of Contents We are required to meet various capital adequacy guidelines. BKFC and the Bank are required to meet certain regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements imposed by the FRB, the FDIC and the Department. If BKFC or the Bank fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and could compromise the status of BKFC as a banking holding company. See “Item 1 – Regulatory Capital Requirements” for detailed capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks. BKFC is a bank holding company, and its sources of funds are limited. BKFC is a bank holding company and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of BKFC is derived primarily, from dividends paid by the Bank. As a result, BKFC’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Under federal law, the payment of dividends by the Bank is subject to capital adequacy requirements. The FRB and/or the FDIC prohibit a dividend payment by BKFC or the Bank that would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. See “Item 1 – Dividend Restrictions.” The inability of the Bank to generate profits and pay such dividends to BKFC, or regulator restrictions on the payment of such dividends to BKFC even if earned, would have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of BKFC and BKFC’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. In addition, since BKFC is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank, its right to participate in the distribution of assets of the Bank upon the Bank’s liquidation, reorganization or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s creditors, which will generally take priority over the Bank’s shareholders. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining senior management. BKFC’s success depends to a great extent on its ability to attract and retain members of senior management. The unexpected loss of a member of senior management could have a material adverse impact on BKFC’s business and its operations. In addition, BKFC’s future performance depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and skilled employees, particularly at the senior management level. As a result of our participation in the CPP, we are required to meet certain standards for executive compensation as set forth under the EESA, and related interim regulations. The recently enacted ARRA requires the Treasury Department to adopt additional standards with respect to executive compensation and governance that may impact certain of our executive officers and employees. Such restrictions imposed as a result of the Treasury Department’s investment in BKFC, in addition to other competitive pressures, may have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, resulting in BKFC not being able to hire the best people or to retain them Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors. Factors include actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation and other factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section. Our common stock also has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a person’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly divest themselves of large blocks of our stock. In addition, a low average trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. Our acquisition of FNB Bancorporation resulted in goodwill, which if it becomes impaired would be required to be written down, which would negatively impact earnings. We acquired FNB Bancorporation on May 18, 2007 and we may pursue additional opportunities for acquisitions in the future. The success of the FNB Bancorporation acquisition depends on many factors, including the long-term retention of key personnel and acquired customer relationships. We recorded goodwill and other intangible assets in conjunction with the acquisition, and such assets may be recorded in future acquisitions. If these assets were to become impaired, we would be required to write them down. 23 Table of Contents The Treasury Department’s investment in BKFC imposes restrictions and obligations limiting BKFC’s ability to increase dividends, repurchase common stock or preferred stock and access the equity capital markets. In February 2009, BKFC issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase common stock to the Treasury Department under the CPP. Prior to February 13, 2012, unless BKFC has redeemed all of the preferred stock, or the Treasury Department has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury Department will be required for BKFC to, among other things, increase common stock dividends or effect repurchases of common stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of BKFC’s common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). BKFC has also granted registration rights to the Treasury Department pursuant to which BKFC has agreed to lock-up periods prior to and following the effective date of an underwritten offering of the preferred stock, the warrant or the underlying common stock held by the Treasury Department, during such time when BKFC would be unable to issue equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 