Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties could also cause our stock price to decline. 11 Table of Contents We have announced our intention to be acquired by Applied Materials and if that transaction is not concluded successfully we may face challenges in growing our business and remaining competitive. On November 17, 2009 we announced that we had entered into an agreement with Applied Materials, pursuant to which Applied Materials would acquire Semitool, Inc. in a combination tender offer and merger. We expect the transactions to close in the first or second fiscal quarters of fiscal 2010. However, the transactions are subject to a number of closing conditions, including our shareholders having tendered more than two-thirds of our outstanding common stock in the tender offer, the receipt of certain U.S. and foreign governmental approvals, and that there be no legal impediment to completing the transactions. Were any of these conditions to fail, and a party were to terminate the merger agreement and abandon the transactions, we would expect to face an immediate and significant reduction in the market price of our common stock. Moreover, we may face difficulties in establishing and maintaining long-term relationships with our key customers and suppliers, who may question our long-term willingness and ability to remain independent. Additionally, we may face difficulties in attracting financing on terms we deem reasonable, or at all. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are facing legal challenges over our decision to enter into the acquisition transactions with Applied Materials. On or about November 19, 2009, November 30, 2009 and December 4, 2009, three purported class action lawsuits related to the tender offer and the merger, captioned Stationary Engineers Local 39 Pension Trust Fund vs. Semitool, Inc., et al. (Cause No. DV-09-1461(B)), Stern vs. Thompson, et al. (Cause No. DV-09-1513(C)), and Marvel v. Thompson, et al., respectively, were filed in the Montana Eleventh Judicial District Court, County of Flathead, against Semitool, each of Semitool’s directors, Applied Materials and Jupiter Acquisition Sub, Inc. (the plaintiff in the Stationary Engineers Local action then filed an amended complaint on or about November 25, 2009). Motions for expedited proceedings were filed by the plaintiffs in the first and second actions, respectively, on November 23, 2009 and December 1, 2009, in each case requesting, among other things, that the Court expedite discovery and schedule a hearing on such plaintiff’s proposed motion for a preliminary injunction no later than December 17, 2009, the currently scheduled Expiration Date of the tender offer. A hearing on the motion for expedited proceedings in the Stationary Engineers Local action took place on December 9, 2009 and, on December 10, 2009, the court issued an order denying the plaintiff’s motion for expedited discovery and issued another order scheduling a hearing on December 15, 2009 in respect of plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction. The actions, each brought by a purported shareholder of Semitool, seek certification of a class of all holders of Semitool common stock (except the defendants and their affiliates) and allege, among other things, that Semitool’s directors breached their fiduciary duties by (i) failing to maximize shareholder value; (ii) securing benefits for certain defendants at the expense or to the detriment of Semitool’s public shareholders; (iii) discouraging and/or inhibiting alternative offers to purchase control of Semitool or its assets; and (iv) failing to disclose material non-public information, and that Applied Materials aided and abetted such alleged breaches. The actions seek, among other things, injunctive relief enjoining the defendants from consummating the tender offer and the merger and damages, as well as recovery of the costs of the action, including reasonable attorneys’ and experts’ fees. Semitool believes the claims alleged against it in the actions to be without merit and intends to defend against them vigorously. In addition, Applied Materials has informed the Company that it also believes the allegations against it in the actions to be without merit, and that it intends to defend against the claims vigorously. However, were a court to disagree with our contention, it may delay the Applied Materials transaction or may award damages to plaintiff shareholders. We also can offer no assurances that other such lawsuits will not be brought, or that if brought, such suits can be timely and effectively defended. Further, the merger agreement contains among other customary conditions a provision that would allow either Semitool or Applied Materials to abandon the tender offer or terminate the merger agreement if any temporary or permanent injunction has been entered that would have the effect of making the transactions unlawful. Because we believe the combination with Applied Materials will enhance Semitool’s ability to compete and expand into new product lines, and that the best value for our shareholders can be obtained by completing these transactions, the delay of or setting aside of these transactions or the abandonment of these transactions by the parties would likely have a material adverse impact upon the market price of our common stock, and may otherwise materially and adversely affect our business strategy and our franchise value. Additionally, shareholder litigation is time-consuming, expensive, and potentially distracting to management, which may cause adverse impacts upon our results of operations or business during the pendency of this lawsuit. If we require additional capital in the future, it may not be available, or if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future. Although we expect cash flows generated from operating activities to be sufficient to fund operations at the current and projected levels in the future, there is no assurance that our operating plan will be achieved. We may need to take actions to reduce costs, seek alternative financing arrangements or pursue additional placement of our common stock. A significant contraction in the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital in the future, if and when it is required, especially if we are unable to maintain profitability. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, our shareholders may be subject to significant dilution in their ownership if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, or we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. 12 Table of Contents The Company has a $30 million Credit Agreement, renewable annually, with Wells Fargo Trade Bank (Trade Bank) with an expiration date of March 1, 2010 with $15 million in advances outstanding as of September 30, 2009. There is no assurance that this facility will be sufficient to meet our cash needs. In addition, the credit facility contains financial covenants which must be met for the availability of funds. We have been in discussions with the Trade Bank regarding our compliance with the Funded Debt to EBITDA covenant. There exists an ambiguity in interpretation which is unresolved, but which if interpreted as noncompliance with the covenant, would allow the Trade Bank to notify us that the non-compliance constitutes an event of default under the facility that (i) prevents further borrowings and (ii) gives them the right to accelerate the payment of all amounts outstanding under the loan. The bank has not provided us with any notice of default (which is also subject to a right of cure within twenty calendar days of the notice). In view of this ambiguity in interpretation, we do not anticipate being able to request further advances under the Credit Agreement until this matter is resolved. If interpreted in favor of the Trade Bank, there would be a Funded Debt to EBIDTA ratio requirement of not more than 2:1 as of September 30, 2009 (EBITDA for the trailing twelve-month period ending September 30, 2009 was a negative number). We continue to discuss credit facility requirements with the Trade Bank with a view toward arranging a facility that resolves any issues regarding borrowing limits and outstanding advances. Further, we do not currently have a plan to replace the Trade Bank credit facility when it matures in March 2010. If the Applied Materials transaction has not been consummated prior to that time, we may require additional borrowing capacity in order to meet our working capital needs and to fund certain capital expenditures. If we cannot secure adequate borrowing capacity on acceptable terms, we may face limitations on our ability to grow our business or expand into other product lines, and we may face shortfalls in working capital, which could require us to reduce our sales, slow down our product development, or take other measures that would be harmful to our results of operation or financial condition. We have incurred significant net losses in the past, our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, and we may be unable to maintain profitability. We have incurred significant net losses in the past. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain profitability. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results will decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. Further, exacerbated or continuing declines in net income or increases in net losses could affect our liquidity, results of operations, or financial conditions. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and will continue to vary significantly in the future, potentially causing volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will continue to do so in the future, which we anticipate will continue to cause our common stock price to fluctuate in the future. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our common stock to price and volume fluctuations include: • changes in customer demand for our systems, which is influenced by economic conditions, technological developments in the semiconductor industry, and the announcement or release of enhancements to existing products or new product offerings by our competitors; • demand for products that use semiconductors; • market acceptance of our systems and changes in our product offerings; • size and timing of orders from customers; • customer cancellations or delays in orders, shipments, and installations; • customer delays or rejections of final acceptance of our shipments; • changes in average selling price and product mix; • failure to ship an anticipated number of systems in the quarter; • product development costs, including research, development, engineering and marketing expenses associated with our introduction of new products and product enhancements; • sudden changes in component prices or availability; • manufacturing inefficiencies caused by uneven or unpredictable order patterns, reducing our gross margins; • costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; • level of our fixed expenses relative to our net sales; and • fluctuating costs associated with our international organization and international sales, including currency exchange rate fluctuations. During any quarter, a significant portion of our net sales may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of high priced systems. The selling prices of our systems range from approximately $20,000 to in excess of $5.0 million. Accordingly, a small change in the number and/or mix of tools we sell may cause significant changes in our operating results. Our results also may fluctuate because of the terms on which we deliver certain of our systems, which in some instances allow customers an extended period of acceptance before becoming obligated to pay for products we have delivered. We follow authoritative accounting guidance regarding revenue recognition for sales that involve contractual customer acceptance provisions and product installation commitments. Timing of revenue recognition from the sale of new systems, sales to new customers and installation services is subject to the length of time required to achieve customer acceptance after shipment, which could cause our operating results to vary from period to period. 13 Table of Contents In light of these factors and the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, we expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results. Moreover, many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term which, together with the need for continued investment in research and development, marketing and customer support, limits our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to declines in sales. As a result, net sales could decline and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could cause our operating results to be below the public market analysts’ or investors’ expectations and the market price of our stock could decline. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry and the semiconductor equipment industry has historically led to substantial variations in demand for our products and consequently our operating results, and will continue to do so. Our operating results are subject to significant variation due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry’s business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. Our business depends upon the capital spending of semiconductor manufacturers, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products using semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and manufacturing capacity, including capacity utilizing the latest technology. The rate of changes in demand, including end-user demand, is accelerating, and the effect of these changes on us is occurring sooner, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology, and continue to affect our net sales, gross margin and results of operations. During downturns, the semiconductor equipment industry typically experiences a more pronounced percentage decrease in revenues than the semiconductor industry. A prolonged downturn can seriously affect our net sales, gross margin and results of operations. In addition, during downturns, it is critical to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to minimize the effect of such downturns on our operations, and in particular, to continue to maintain our core research and development programs. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to such downturns on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected to an even larger extent during industry downturns. Conversely, during an upturn or periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we may not have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand. During an upturn we would be unable to predict the sustainability of a recovery, if any, and/or the industry’s rate of growth in such a recovery, both of which will be affected by many factors. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and production capacity during an industry upturn, we may fail to plan for increasing demand, or we may overestimate the potential demand, in either of which cases there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have experienced periods of rapid growth and decline in operating levels, and if we are not able to successfully manage these significant fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have experienced periods of significant growth and decline in net sales. Our net sales decreased approximately 41.7% from $238.6 million in fiscal 2008 to $139.0 million in fiscal 2009 and increased approximately 11.0% from $215.2 million in fiscal 2007 to $238.6 million in fiscal 2008. However, there have been periods of even more significant declines in net sales; for example, our net sales decreased 51.8% from approximately $256.5 million for fiscal 2001 to approximately $123.7 million for fiscal 2002. In addition, our consolidated orders backlog decreased 30.9% from approximately $85.3 million at September 30, 2006 to $58.9 million at September 30, 2007. If we are unable to effectively manage periods of rapid decline or sales growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly harmed. Our deferred revenue and orders backlog may not result in future net sales. Revenue recognition guidance requires that revenue and the associated profit from the sale of newly introduced systems, systems sales into new customer environments and substantive installation obligations that are subject to contractual customer acceptance provisions are deferred until the customer has acknowledged their acceptance of the system. If the system does not meet the agreed specifications and the customer refuses to accept the system, the deferred revenue and associated deferred profit will not be realized and we may be required to refund any cash payments previously received from the customer, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Order backlog does not necessarily include all sales needed to achieve net revenue expectations for a subsequent period. We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon order backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. In addition, while we evaluate each customer order to determine qualification for inclusion in backlog, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog will ultimately result in future sales. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future sales, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we experienced an abnormally high amount of customer cancellations. 14 Table of Contents Our continued high spending levels on research and development and the need to maintain a high level of customer service and support may, under certain circumstances, harm our results of operations. In order to remain competitive, we must maintain a high level of investment in research and development, marketing and customer service while controlling operating expenses. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development as well as a high level of worldwide customer service and support. As a result of our need to maintain spending levels in these areas, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales fall below expectations. In addition, because of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase further in the future, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow in any given period. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make a high level of investment in research and development, marketing and customer service while controlling operating expenses or that our products will continue to be viewed as competitive as a result of technological advances by competitors or changes in semiconductor processing technology. Such competitive pressures may necessitate significant price reductions by us or result in lost orders, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on our key customers with which we do not have long-term contracts. Any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by, or failure to collect receivables from, these customers could harm our business. Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Sales are made pursuant to purchase orders, which can be cancelled or delayed by our customers at any time. Our customers are not required to make minimum purchases from us, or make purchases at any particular time; our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty. In addition, customer cancellations and requests for delayed deliveries can create a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During the recent economic turmoil affecting the world’s economies, we experienced a significantly higher amount of customer cancellations and requests for delays in delivery. While in some cases we have contractual protections against such cancellations or requests for delayed shipments, there is no assurance in the future that we will be able to collect amounts due under those provisions. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 48.2%, 56.0% and 67.8% of net sales in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There are a limited number of large companies operating in the highly concentrated, capital intensive semiconductor industry. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of large companies for a significant portion of our net sales. Although the composition of the group of largest customers may change from year to year, the loss of, or a significant curtailment of purchases by, one or more of our key customers or the delay or cancellation of a large order could cause our net sales to decline significantly, which would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, delays in payments by large customers could have a significant impact on our cash flows. Intense competition in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our market share and reduce demand for our products. We face substantial competition from established competitors, some of which have: • greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources; • broader and integrated product lines; • more extensive customer support capabilities; and • larger sales organizations and customer bases. We may also face competition from new market entrants. Our ability to compete successfully in the future depends on a number of factors, including: • system performance, quality and reliability; • upfront price and maintenance costs of using our products; • ability to ship products on time to meet customers’ demands; • timeliness and quality of technical support service; and • our success in developing new and enhanced products. Due to intense competitive conditions in the semiconductor equipment industry, we have from time to time selectively reduced prices on our systems in order to protect our market share, and competitive pressures may necessitate further price reductions. Periodically, our competitors announce the introduction of new products or lower prices which can affect our customers’ decisions to purchase our systems, the prices we can charge for our systems and the level of discounts we grant our customers. 15 Table of Contents Moreover, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These combinations may provide our competitors and potential competitors with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to more rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers are relatively large companies that require global support and service for their semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Our larger competitors have more extensive infrastructures, which could place us at a disadvantage when competing for the business of global semiconductor device manufacturers. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that will offer superior price, performance and/or cost of ownership features, or that new processes or technologies will not emerge that render our products less competitive or obsolete. As a result of the substantial investment required to evaluate and select capital equipment and integrate it into a production line, we believe that once a manufacturer has selected certain capital equipment from a particular vendor, there is a tendency for the manufacturer to rely upon that vendor to provide equipment for the specific production line application and may seek to rely upon that vendor to meet other capital equipment requirements. Accordingly, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for a protracted period of time with respect to a particular customer if that customer utilizes a competitor’s manufacturing equipment. Our Raider platform accounts for a substantial portion of current and anticipated sales. We have leveraged our Raider platform to address both surface preparation and ECD applications. In fiscal year 2009, the Raider platform accounted for approximately 80% of our tool revenues. We expect that revenue from our Raider platform will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. Accordingly, if the Raider platform were adversely affected by its own performance, price or total cost of ownership, or the availability, functionality and price of competing products and technologies, that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Rapid technological change could make our products and inventories obsolete or unmarketable. We operate in an industry that is subject to evolving industry standards, rapid technological changes, rapid changes in customer demands and the rapid introduction of new, higher performance systems with shorter product life cycles. For example, recent trends in semiconductor manufacturing include the move toward smaller device features to lower cost and improve performance, the use of new materials to achieve higher speed and performance of an integrated circuit, and the migration to 300mm diameter wafers from 200mm diameter wafers to increase productivity and reduce costs. As a result of these and other trends in our industry, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development. Although, historically, we have had adequate funds from operations to devote to research and development, there can be no assurance that we will have funds available, and in sufficient quantities, in the future for such research and development activities. Introductions of new products by us or our competitors could adversely affect sales of our existing products and may cause these existing products and related inventories to become obsolete or unmarketable, or otherwise cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We may be unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis or in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves widespread market acceptance. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. These effects of rapid technological change could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventories or are required to write down our inventories due to changing market demands for our products. To achieve commercial success with our products, we need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer product and volume requirements. Some of our products and supplies, have in the past and may in the future, become obsolete, while in inventory, due to rapidly changing customer specifications or slowdowns in demand for existing products ahead of new product introductions by us or our competitors. If we are not successfully able to manage our inventory, including our spare parts inventory, we may need to write off unsaleable or obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we wrote down inventory by approximately $3.0 million primarily due to product enhancements that changed the usage of certain component parts, making them obsolete. We have pursued a vertically-integrated manufacturing model and therefore a significant portion of our supply chain is manufactured by Semitool. Consequently, we may be more exposed to having significantly greater inventory on hand than competing companies which rely more heavily on outsourced supply chains. Our dependence on key suppliers could delay shipments and increase our costs. Some components and subassemblies included in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. The loss of, or disruption in, shipments from these sole or limited source suppliers could, in the short-term, adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Our future success depends on international sales. Our net sales attributable to customers outside the United States as a percentage of our total net sales were approximately 74.5%, 71.4% and 62.5% for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. We expect net sales outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our future net sales. Sales to customers outside the United States are subject to various risks, including: • exposure to currency fluctuations and related derivatives used to hedge such fluctuations; • exposure of foreign accounts to currency exchange translations; • political and economic instability, including terrorism; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other market barriers; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • outbreaks of hostilities, particularly in Israel, Korea, Taiwan or China; • difficulties in managing foreign sales representatives and distributors; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign branch operations. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, if the U.S. dollar rises in value in relation to foreign currencies, our systems will become more expensive to customers outside the United States and less competitive with systems produced by competitors outside the United States. Such conditions could negatively impact our international sales. Although we endeavor to meet technical standards established by foreign standards setting organizations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with changes in foreign standards in the future. Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our net sales, and thus our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, to fluctuate widely from period to period. This variation could cause our stock price to decline. Our customers generally take a long time to evaluate many of our products before committing to a purchase. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our systems. The length of time it takes us to make a sale depends upon many factors, including: • the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives and distributors; • the complexity of our customers’ fabrication processes; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; and • capital spending by our customers. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales cycle, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from our customer, if ever, varies widely in length. Our sales cycle typically ranges from one month to two years. Occasionally our sales cycle can be even longer, particularly with our international customers and new technologies. The subsequent build cycle, or the time it takes us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order, typically ranges from one to six months. During these cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. When a customer purchases one of our systems, that customer often evaluates the performance of the system for a lengthy period before considering the purchase of more systems. The number of additional products a customer may purchase from us, if any, depends on many factors, including the customer’s capacity requirements. The period between a customer’s initial purchase and subsequent purchases, if any, often varies from two to twelve months or longer, and variations in length of this period could cause further fluctuations in our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and possibly our stock price. If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility may be harmed, sales and market acceptance of our systems may decrease and we may incur liabilities associated with those defects. Our systems are complex and sometimes have contained errors, defects and software bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or software bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems could be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or software bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to commercial and/or product liability as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to product liability indemnities. Our product and commercial liability insurance policies currently provide only limited coverage per claim. In the event of a successful product liability and/or commercial claim, we could be obligated to pay damages that may not be covered by insurance or that are significantly in excess of our insurance limits. 17 Table of Contents Failure of our products to gain market acceptance would adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to provide customer service and support. We believe that our growth prospects depend upon our ability to gain customer acceptance of our products and technology. Market acceptance of products depends upon numerous factors, including compatibility with existing manufacturing processes and products, perceived advantages over competing products and the level of customer service available to support such products. Moreover, manufacturers often rely on a limited number of equipment vendors to meet their manufacturing equipment needs. As a result, market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected to the extent potential customers utilize a competitor’s manufacturing equipment. There can be no assurance that growth in sales of new products will continue or that we will be successful in obtaining broad market acceptance of our systems and technology. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new products and refine existing products. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue from the sale of any new systems. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market any new products is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle, including start up delays, design defects and other matters that could delay the introduction of these systems to the marketplace. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize sufficient sales of our systems in order to recoup research and development expenditures. The failure of any of our new products to achieve market acceptance would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We manufacture substantially all of our equipment at two facilities and any prolonged disruption in the operations of either facility could have a material adverse effect on our net sales. We manufacture substantially all of our equipment in our manufacturing facilities located near Kalispell, Montana. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated and costly equipment and a specially designed facility. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of either of our manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage as a result of a fire or any other reason, could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. If we cannot provide timely delivery of our systems, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected to a significant extent. Compliance with environmental regulations may be very costly, and the failure to comply could result in liabilities, fines and cessation of our business. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. Current or future regulations could require us to purchase expensive equipment or to incur other substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities, result in fines being imposed on us, or result in the suspension of production or cessation of our manufacturing operations. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate, our business could be harmed. We place a strong emphasis on the technically innovative features of our products and, where available, we generally seek patent protection for those features. We currently hold 374 U.S. patents, some with pending foreign counterparts, have approximately 101 U.S. patent applications pending and intend to file additional patent applications, as we deem appropriate. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any of our pending applications or that existing or future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. While we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights and non-disclosure agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology, or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Furthermore, certain types of intellectual property are country-specific; for example, U.S. patents provide protection in the U.S. but generally do not provide protection outside the U.S. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful competitive advantages to us. In any of such events, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in semiconductor-related industries. Although we are not aware of any potential infringement by our products of any patents or proprietary rights of others, further commercialization of our technology could provoke claims of infringement from third parties. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements could be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In any case, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. Now and in the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could cause us to accrue substantial cost or divert our management or resources, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities and damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. In fiscal 2009, approximately 74.5% of our net sales were derived from sales in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia such as Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, China and Korea. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries, some of which are countries in which we have sold and continue to sell systems. For example, in many countries other than the U.S., the public disclosure of an invention prior to the filing of a patent application for the invention would invalidate the ability of a company to obtain a patent. Similarly, in contrast to the United States where the contents of patent applications may remain confidential during the patent prosecution process in certain cases, the contents of a patent application may be published before a patent is granted, which provides competitors an advanced view of the contents of applications prior to the establishment of patent rights. For these and other reasons, we also have not filed patent applications in these countries to the same extent that we file in the U.S. There is a risk that our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in those countries. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any unissued shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designations of such series, without further vote or action by the shareholders. We have no present plans to issue any preferred stock in order to deter a takeover and/or adopt additional anti-takeover measures. If such actions are taken in the future, they may make a change of control difficult, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Further, our Agreement and Plan of Merger with Applied Materials, Inc., dated November 16, 2009, prohibits our soliciting or, with certain exceptions, entertaining, discussions which could lead to a merger with or acquisition by a person other than Applied Materials. Further, the merger agreement provides for certain fees and liquidated damages payments in the event we abandon the merger or take other actions inconsistent with its completion, in the event our board of directors determines in the exercise of their fiduciary duties that the transactions no longer can be considered to be in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging competing offers to acquire the Company. Any anti-takeover provisions, including any issuance of preferred stock, could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to gain control of us. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We must attract and retain key personnel to help direct and support our future growth. Competition for such personnel in our industry can be high. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, customer support, finance and manufacturing personnel. The loss of any of these key personnel, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Raymon F. Thompson, or our President and Chief Operating Officer, Larry E. Murphy, could harm our business and operating results. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. Further, to support future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The pool of qualified applicants is limited and it can be difficult to hire and relocate personnel from other areas. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified senior executives and other employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents 