ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the parent company’s common shares is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The most significant risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems less significant, may also impair the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, the value of the parent company’s common shares could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally From December 2007 through June 2009, the United States experienced a recession and a slowing of economic activity. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced. The real estate sector, and the related segments of the construction business sector, were particularly severely affected. Local governments and many businesses were in serious difficulty, due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment had increased significantly. Since then, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally have been materially and adversely affected at times by significant declines in the values of asset classes and by a lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. Although U.S. economic conditions have generally improved from 2008 and 2009 levels, certain sectors, such as real estate and manufacturing, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Despite the actions of the U.S. Government PAGE 15 and the Federal Reserve Board, both with respect to monetary policy, fiscal policy and increased regulations meant to restore investor confidence, the overall business environment in 2012 was adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. In addition, concerns over U.S. fiscal policy, budget deficit issues and political debate over the debt ceiling have created additional economic and market uncertainty. Internationally, the weakness of certain foreign banks and the increasing danger of sovereign defaults has led to continuing high levels of uncertainty and volatility in the international financial markets. In particular, concerns about the European Union’s sovereign debt crisis have also caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Such risks could indirectly affect the Company by affecting its hedging or other counterparties, as well as the Company’s customers with European businesses or assets denominated in the euro or companies in the Company’s market with European businesses or affiliates. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay the principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the New York metropolitan area and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; state and national fiscal disruptions; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. The business environment in the New York metropolitan area, the United States and worldwide has generally improved since the recession, but there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve in the near term. A slowing of improvement or a return to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, business results of operations and financial condition. Market Volatility May Adversely Impact Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Our Ability to Manage Risk The capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the 2008 financial crisis. During times of market stress, our hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating securities trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. Further market volatility could produce downward pressure on our stock price and credit availability without regard to our underlying financial strength. The broad decline in stock prices throughout the financial services industry, which has also affected our common shares, could require a goodwill impairment test. A substantial goodwill impairment charge could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. For a discussion of risk, see “ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT” beginning on page 49 in “MANAGE­MENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” If markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to manage risk and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Experience Write-downs of Investment Securities that We Own and Other Losses Related to Volatile and Illiquid Market Conditions, Reducing Our Earnings We maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available for sale and, consequently, are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes residential mortgage-backed securities, agency notes, municipal obligations and corporate debt securities, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. This volatility affects the amount of our capital. In addition, if such investments suffer credit losses, we may recognize the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment which could impact our revenue in the quarter in which we recognize the losses. If we experience losses related to our investment securities portfolio in the future, it could ultimately adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. For information regarding our investment securities portfolio, see “BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS—Securities” beginning on page 37 and for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks asso­ciated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to “ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT—Market Risk” beginning on page 49, both of which are in “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” PAGE 16 Improvements in Economic Indicators Disproportionately Affecting the Financial Services Industry May Lag Improvements in the General Economy The improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by 12 to 18 months. The Company’s clients include entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, the Company could be adversely affected. The Company Is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk, see “ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT” beginning on page 49 in “MANAGE­MENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” The Company Is Subject to Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates, as well as those throughout the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or a return to weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Company. In addition, under various laws and regulations relating to mortgage lending and terms of various agreements the Company is a party to, the Company may be required to repurchase loans or indemnify loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 59.1% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, factored receivables, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, if repurchase and indemnity demands with respect to the Company’s loan portfolio increase, its liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. For further discussion related to commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans, see “Loan Portfolio” beginning on page 40 in “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” PAGE 17 The Company’s Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regu­latory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, see “Asset Quality” beginning on page 41 in “MAN­AGE­MENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” The Company May Not Be Able to Meet the Cash Flow Requirements of Its Depositors and Borrowers or Meet Its Operating Cash Needs to Fund Corporate Expansion and Other Activities Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the bank is used to make loans and leases and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. The overall liquidity position of the bank and the parent company are regularly monitored to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and non-core deposits. The bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. The Company maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. The bank also can borrow through the Federal Reserve Bank’s discount window. If the Company is unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see “Liquidity Risk” beginning on page 51 in “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” The Parent Company Relies on Dividends from Its Subsidiaries The parent company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the parent company’s common shares and principal and interest on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. Also, the parent company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the bank is unable to pay dividends to the parent company, the parent company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the parent company’s common shares. The inability of the parent company to receive dividends from the bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “SUPERVISION AND REGULA­TION” on pages 3–13 and Note 15 of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future and Such Capital May Not Be Available When Needed or at All The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs, particularly if its asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company’s control, and the Company’s financial performance. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company’s cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank’s discount window. PAGE 18 The Company cannot assure that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit the Company’s access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of the bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of the parent company or the bank’s ratings, may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. Moreover, if the Company needs to raise capital in the future, it may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject to a Variety of Operational Risks, Including Reputational Risk, Legal and Compliance Risk, the Risk of Fraud or Theft by Employees or Outsiders The Company is exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from its actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. The 2008 financial crisis and current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions have resulted in a significant amount of adverse media coverage of financial institutions. Harm to our reputation can result from numerous sources, including adverse publicity arising from events in the financial markets, our perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our employees or alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or our competitors. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures. Additionally, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality or a failure to appropriately describe our products and services can result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue, higher operating costs and litigation. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by other members of or individuals in the financial services industry can also negatively impact our reputation. For example, public perception that some consumers may have been treated unfairly by financial institutions has damaged the reputation of the financial services industry as a whole. Negative public opinion can adversely affect its ability to attract and keep customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Company can result in negative public opinion about its other business. Negative public opinion could also affect its credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as the Company is) and to the risk that its (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of the Company to operate its business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The Company Relies on Other Companies to Provide Key Components of Its Business Infrastructure Third parties provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure, for example, system support, Internet connections and network access. While the Company has selected these third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect its ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. PAGE 19 The Company Is Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated with Lending Activities A portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expense and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. Future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly on Local and Overall Economic Conditions The Company’s success depends significantly on the economic conditions of the communities it serves and the general economic conditions of the United States. The Company has operations in New York City and the New York metropolitan area, and conducts business in Virginia and other mid-Atlantic states and throughout the United States. The economic conditions in these areas and throughout the United States have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services, as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. Poor economic conditions, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, acts of God or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit, or derivative, if any, exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters or Other Acts of God, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact the Company’s Business Severe weather, natural disasters or other acts of God, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets the Company operates. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have entered the market areas in which the Company currently operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology and other changes have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. For example, consumers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or PAGE 20 mutual funds. The expiration on December 31, 2012 of the FDIC’s unlimited insurance coverage for non-interest-bearing transaction accounts at banking institutions may make it more likely for depositors to move funds into non-bank products. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company does. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand the Company’s market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Company, primarily through the parent company and the bank and certain nonbank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital levels and structure, compensation practices, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions’ regulatory regimes. U.S. regulatory agencies—banking, securities and commodities—are steadily publishing notices of proposed and final regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and new bodies created by the Dodd-Frank Act (including the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) are commencing operations. The related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of the rulemaking process, the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law and market practices that develop around the final rules may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and cause us to change certain business practices and plans. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See “SUPERVISION AND REGULATION” on pages 3–13. Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums May Adversely Affect the Company’s Earnings Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. In addition, the increase of insured amount of deposit accounts placed additional stress on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Additionally, the failure by the parent company or the bank to maintain its “well capitalized” status could also lead to higher FDIC PAGE 21 assessments. Such increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact its earnings. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented The Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company May Be Subject to a Higher Effective Tax Rate if Sterling Real Estate Holding Company, Inc. Fails to Qualify as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) Sterling Real Estate Holding Company Inc. (“SREHC”) operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. SREHC was established to acquire, hold and manage mortgage assets and other authorized investments to generate net income for distribution to its shareholders. For an entity to qualify as a REIT, it must satisfy the following six asset tests under the Internal Revenue Code each quarter: (1) 75% of the value of the REIT’s total assets must consist of real estate assets, cash and cash items, and government securities; (2) not more than 25% of the value of the REIT’s total assets may consist of securities, other than those includible under the 75% test; (3) not more than 5% of the value of its total assets may consist of securities of any one issuer, other than those securities includible under the 75% test or securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries; (4) not more than 10% of the outstanding voting power of any one issuer may be held, other than those securities includible under the 75% test or securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries; (5) not more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer may be held, other than those securities includible under the 75% test or securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries; and (6) a REIT cannot own securities in one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, which comprise more than 25% of its total assets. At December 31, 2012, SREHC met all six quarterly asset tests. Also, a REIT must satisfy the following two gross income tests each year: (1) 75% of its gross income must be from qualifying income closely connected with real estate activities; and (2) 95% of its gross income must be derived from sources qualifying for the 75% test plus dividends, interest, and gains from the sale of securities. In addition, a REIT must distribute at least 90% of its taxable income for the taxable year, excluding any net capital gains, to maintain its non-taxable status for federal income tax purposes. For 2012, SREHC had met the two annual income tests and the distribution test. If SREHC fails to meet any of the required provisions and, therefore, does not qualify to be a REIT, the Company’s effective tax rate would increase. The Company Would Be Subject to a Higher Effective Tax Rate if Sterling Real Estate Holding Company, Inc. Is Required to Be Included in a New York Combined Return New York State tax law generally requires a REIT that is majority-owned by a New York State bank to be included in the bank’s combined New York State tax return. The Company believes that it qualifies for the small-bank exception to this rule. If, contrary to this belief, Sterling Real Estate Holding Company, Inc. were required to be included in the Company’s New York State combined tax return, the Company’s effective tax rate would increase. Under the small-bank exception, dividends received by the bank from SREHC, a real estate investment trust, are subject to a 60% dividends-received deduction, which results in only 40% of the dividends being subject to New York State tax. Currently, the New York City banking corporation tax operates in the same manner in this respect. The possible reform of the New York State franchise and banking corporation tax laws mentioned below could require SREHC to file a combined New York State return with the Company and substantially eliminate the benefit of the 60% dividends-received deduction by causing generally all of SREHC’s income to be subject to New York State tax as part of the Company’s combined return. The Recent Repeal of Federal Prohibitions on Payment of Interest on Demand Deposits Could Increase the Company’s Interest Expense All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act beginning on July 21, 2011. As a result, some financial institutions commenced offering interest on demand deposits to compete for customers. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer as the market rates begin to increase. The Company’s interest expense will increase and its net interest margin will decrease if it begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. PAGE 22 New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject the Company to Additional Risks The Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources but it may take time for revenues to develop. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to manage these risks successfully in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt the Company’s Business and Dilute Shareholder Value Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. • Potential disruption to the Company’s business. • Potential diversion of the Company’s management time and attention. • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. To the extent we enter into an agreement to acquire an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when anticipated, or at all. In particular, at times we must seek federal regulatory approvals before we can acquire another organization, which can delay or disrupt such acquisitions. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company has employment agreements with two of its senior officers. Our ability to attract and retain key executives and other employees may be hindered as a result of regulations applicable to incentive compensation and other aspects of our compensation programs promulgated by the Federal Reserve and other regulators in the United States, regulations on incentive compensation to be promulgated by various U.S. regulators pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and other existing and potential regulations. These regulations, which include and are expected to include mandatory deferral and clawback requirements, do not and will not apply to some of our competitors and to other institutions with which we compete for talent. Our ability to recruit and retain key talent may be adversely affected by these regulations. PAGE 23 If the Company’s Information Systems Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security that Results in a Loss of Confidential Client Information or Impacts Our Ability to Provide Services to Our Clients, Our Business and Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. The security of our computer systems, software and networks, and those functions that we may outsource, may be vulnerable to breaches, hacker attacks, unauthorized access and misuse, computer viruses and other cyber security risks and events that could result in failures or disruptions in our business, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan systems. Our businesses that rely heavily on technology are particularly vulnerable to security breaches and technology disruptions. Breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential information, including employees and customers, as well as hackers. A breach of security that results in the loss of confidential client information may require us to reimburse clients for data and credit monitoring efforts and would be costly and time-consuming, and may negatively impact our results of operations and reputation. Additionally, security breaches or disruptions of our information system could impact our ability to provide services to our clients, which could expose us to liability for damages, result in the loss of customer business, damage our reputation, subject us to regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain security breaches or other cyber incidents may remain undetected for an extended period of time, which may amplify the damages to our clients and/or us arising from such breaches or incidents. In addition, the failure to upgrade or maintain our computer systems, software and networks, as necessary, could also make us susceptible to breaches and unauthorized access and misuse. During the year, the Company experienced occasional cyber-attacks and attempted breaches, which did not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on the Company. There can be no assurance that any failures, interruptions or security breaches that occur in the future will be adequately addressed. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify, investigate or remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from information systems security risks. The Company Depends on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information About Customers and Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to implement effectively new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to keep pace successfully with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject to Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility and Lender Liability From time to time, customers may make claims or take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether such claims or actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company they could result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any fiduciary liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. PAGE 24 In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against the Company or its subsidiaries could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant harm to its reputation. The Company’s Reported Financial Results Depend on Management’s Selection of Accounting Methods and Certain Assumptions and Estimates The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to the methods by which the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Its management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report its financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in its reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting its financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; the determination of fair value for financial instruments; the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; the accounting for pension and post-retirement benefits and the accounting for income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly increase its accrued tax liability. Changes in the Company’s Accounting Policies or in Accounting Standards Could Materially Affect How the Company Reports Its Financial Results and Condition From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company restating prior period financial statements. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PARENT COMPANY’S COMMON SHARES The Parent Company’s Share Price Can Be Volatile Share price volatility may make it more difficult to resell the parent company’s common shares when desired and at an attractive price. The parent company’s share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other factors: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. • Recommendations by securities analysts. • Expectation of or actual equity dilution. • Operating and share price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated bene­fits from acquisitions. • Changes in government regulation. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the parent company’s share price to decrease regardless of operating results. PAGE 25 The Trading Volume in the Parent Company’s Common Shares Is Less Than That of Other Larger Financial Services Companies Although the parent company’s common shares are listed for trading on the NYSE, the trading volume in its common shares is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the parent company’s common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the trading volume of the parent company’s common shares, significant sales of the parent company’s common shares, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the parent company’s share price to fall. An Investment in the Parent Company’s Common Shares Is Not an Insured Deposit The parent company’s common shares are not bank deposits and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the parent company’s common shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common shares in any company. As a result, if you acquire the parent company’s common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. The Parent Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws as Well as Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the parent company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the parent company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the parent company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the parent company’s common shares. The Parent Company May Not Pay Dividends on Its Common Shares Holders of shares of the parent company’s common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as its board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the parent company has historically declared cash dividends on its common shares, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its common share dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of its common shares. Future Issuances of Additional Common Shares or Other Equity Securities Could Result in Dilution of Ownership of the Parent Company’s Existing Shareholders The parent company may from time to time explore capital raising opportunities and may determine to issue additional common shares or other equity securities to increase its capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. We intend to take advantage of favorable market conditions to increase our capital. Further, the parent company may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate its employees. These issuances of equity securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of its existing shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 