Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. All intellectual property acquisition, development, licensing and enforcement activities are conducted solely by certain of our wholly owned operating subsidiaries. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND WILL PROBABLY INCUR ADDITIONAL LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have sustained substantial losses since our inception. We may never become profitable, or if we do, we may never be able to sustain profitability. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $109.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $51.5 million in cash and cash equivalents along with investments and working capital of $42.6 million. We expect to incur significant legal, marketing, general and administrative expenses. As a result, it is more likely than not that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. However, we believe our current cash and investments on hand will be sufficient to finance anticipated capital and operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. IF WE, OR OUR SUBSIDIARIES, ENCOUNTER UNFORESEEN DIFFICULTIES AND CANNOT OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDING ON FAVORABLE TERMS, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. Our consolidated cash and cash equivalents along with investments totaled $51.5 million and $51.4 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. To date, we have relied primarily upon selling of equity securities and payments from our licensees to generate the funds needed to finance our operations and the operations of our operating subsidiaries. 6 We cannot assure you that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties, including the outside influences identified below, that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, we and or our subsidiary companies may be required to obtain additional financing through bank borrowings, debt or equity financings or otherwise, which would require us to make additional investments or face a dilution of our equity interests. Any efforts to seek additional funds could be made through equity, debt or other external financings. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that additional funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed for our subsidiary companies and ourselves, we may not be able to execute our business plans and our business may suffer. FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR GROWTH COULD PLACE STRAINS ON OUR MANAGERIAL, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as our subsidiary companies’ businesses grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our subsidiary companies or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR ORGANIZATION TO MATCH THE GROWTH OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES. As our operating subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon us and on our operating subsidiaries, will grow, and our success will depend upon our ability to meet those demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support, and general office services. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of our control. Further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. OUR REVENUES WILL BE UNPREDICTABLE, AND THIS MAY HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. From January 2005 to present, certain of our operating subsidiaries have continued to execute our strategy in the area of patent portfolio and patent portfolio rights acquisitions. Currently, on a consolidated basis, our operating subsidiaries own or control the rights to over 100 patent portfolios, which include U.S. patents and certain foreign counterparts, covering technologies used in a wide variety of industries. These acquisitions continue to expand and diversify our revenue generating opportunities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalent balances, anticipated cash flow from operations and other external sources of available credit, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements through at least March 2010, and for the foreseeable future. However, due to the nature of our licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license fees from potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of our existing licensees and other factors, we cannot currently predict the amount and timing of the receipt of license fee revenues with a sufficient degree of precision. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage and cause our quarterly results to be below market expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES DEPEND UPON RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHERS TO PROVIDE TECHNOLOGY-BASED OPPORTUNITIES THAT CAN DEVELOP INTO PROFITABLE ROYALTY-BEARING LICENSES, AND IF IT IS UNABLE TO MAINTAIN AND GENERATE NEW RELATIONSHIPS, THEN IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN EXISTING LEVELS OF REVENUE OR INCREASE REVENUE. Neither we nor our operating subsidiaries invent new technologies or products but instead depend on the identification and acquisition of new patents and inventions through their relationships with inventors, universities, research institutions, and others. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to maintain those relationships and continue to grow new relationships, then they may not be able to identify new technology-based opportunities for growth and sustainable revenue. 7 We cannot be certain that current or new relationships will provide the volume or quality of technologies necessary to sustain our business. In some cases, universities and other technology sources may compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize technologies. Universities may receive financing for basic research in exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize resulting inventions. These and other strategies may reduce the number of technology sources and potential clients to whom we can market our services. If we are unable to secure new sources of technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. THE SUCCESS OF OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES DEPENDS IN PART UPON THEIR ABILITY TO RETAIN THE BEST LEGAL COUNSEL TO REPRESENT THEM IN PATENT ENFORCEMENT LITIGATION. The success of our licensing business depends upon our operating subsidiaries’ ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. As our operating subsidiaries’ patent enforcement actions increase, it will become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents its representation of our subsidiary companies. OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES, IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, RELY ON REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND OPINIONS MADE BY THIRD PARTIES, THAT IF DETERMINED TO BE FALSE OR INACCURATE, MAY EXPOSE OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES TO CERTAIN LIABILITIES THAT COULD BE MATERIAL. From time to time, our operating subsidiaries may rely upon representations and warranties made by third parties from whom certain of our operating subsidiaries acquired patents or the exclusive rights to license and enforce patents. We also may rely upon the opinions of purported experts. In certain instances, we may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. By relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, our operating subsidiaries may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights. It is difficult to predict the extent and nature of such liabilities which, in some instances, may be material. IN CONNECTION WITH PATENT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS CONDUCTED BY CERTAIN OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES, A COURT MAY RULE THAT OUR SUBSIDIARIES HAVE VIOLATED CERTAIN STATUTORY, REGULATORY, FEDERAL, LOCAL OR GOVERNING RULES OR STANDARDS, WHICH MAY EXPOSE US AND OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES TO MATERIAL LIABILITIES, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND OUR FINANCIAL POSITION. In connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or our operating subsidiaries or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if required to be paid by us or our operating subsidiaries, could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. OUR INVESTMENTS IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS, INCLUDING THE CONTINUED FAILURE OF FUTURE AUCTIONS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR LOSSES OR HAVE REDUCED LIQUIDITY. At December 31, 2008, our investments in marketable securities include certain auction rate securities. Our auction rate securities are investment grade quality and were in compliance with our investment policy when purchased. Historically, our auction rate securities were recorded at cost, which approximated their fair market value due to their variable interest rates, which typically reset every 7 to 35 days, despite the long-term nature of their stated contractual maturities. The Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals is intended to provide liquidity to the holder of auction rate securities by matching buyers and sellers within a market context enabling the holder to gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par or rolling over their investment. If there is an imbalance between buyers and sellers the risk of a failed auction exists. Due to recent liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, these securities experienced several failed auctions since February 2008. In such case of a failure, the auction rate securities continue to pay interest, at the maximum rate, in accordance with their terms, however, we may not be able to access the par value of the invested funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, the security is called by the issuer or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. 8 At December 31, 2008, the par value of auction rate securities collateralized by student loan portfolios totaled $2.75 million. As a result of the liquidity issues associated with the failed auctions, we estimate that the fair value of these auction rate securities no longer approximates their par value. Due to the estimate that the market for these student loan collateralized instruments may take in excess of twelve months to fully recover, we have classified these investments as noncurrent in the accompanying December 31, 2008 consolidated balance sheet. In addition, as a result of our analysis of the estimated fair value of our student loan collateralized instruments, as described at Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein, we have recorded an other-than-temporary loss of $250,000 for our student loan collateralized instruments in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) (hereinafter “consolidated statements of operations”) for the year ended December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, we also held auction rate securities with a par value totaling $975,000, issued by high credit quality closed-end investment companies. Despite the reduction in liquidity resulting from the failure of auctions for these securities since February 2008, the issuers of these auction rate securities have redeemed, at par, approximately 66% of the securities held by us since February 2008, and have indicated that they continue to evaluate ways to provide additional liquidity to their auction rate security holders. Additionally, these securities continue to be AAA rated and the underlying funds continue to meet certain specified asset coverage tests required by the rating agencies, as well as the 200% asset coverage test with respect to auction rate securities set forth in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. However, due to the impact of the reduced liquidity associated with these securities as of December 31, 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary loss on these auction rate securities of $236,000 in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, and have classified our auction rate securities issued by closed-end investment companies as noncurrent assets in the accompanying December 31, 2008 consolidated balance sheet. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In several cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers. Given the deteriorating credit markets, and the sustained incidence of failure within the auction market since February 2008, there can be no assurance as to when we would be able to liquidate a particular issue. Furthermore, if these market conditions were to persist despite our ability to hold such investments until maturity, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in a future period. The systemic failure of future auctions for auction rate securities may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Refer to Note 7 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere herein, for additional information about our investments in auction rate securities and the implementation of SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” or SFAS No.157. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO MANY UNCONTROLLABLE OUTSIDE INFLUENCES, WE MAY NOT SUCCEED. Our licensing and enforcement business operations are subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: New legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease our revenue. Our operating subsidiaries acquire patents with enforcement opportunities and are spending a significant amount of resources to enforce those patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. 9 Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. More patent applications are filed each year resulting in longer delays in getting patents issued by the USPTO. Certain of our operating subsidiaries hold and continue to acquire pending patents. We have identified a trend of increasing patent applications each year, which we believe is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. The application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. See the subheading “Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents,” below. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over our actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater affect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. Any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. The assets of our operating subsidiaries consist of patent portfolios, including pending patent applications before the USPTO. The value of our patent portfolios is dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could negatively impact the value of our assets. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses. Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents. We expect to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. Entities including Allied Security Trust, Altitude Capital Partners, Coller IP, Intellectual Ventures, Millennium Partners, Open Innovation Network, RPX Corporation and Rembrandt IP Management compete in acquiring rights to patents, and we expect more entities to enter the market. As new technological advances occur, many of our patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If we are unable to replace obsolete technologies with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on our ability to generate future revenues. Our licensing business also competes with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than our company. As we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue. 10 Our patented technologies face uncertain market value. Our operating subsidiaries have acquired patents and technologies that are at early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. Refer to the related risk factor below. As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our company. The foregoing outside influences may affect other risk factors described in this annual report. Any one of the foregoing outside influences may cause our company to need additional financing to meet the challenges presented or to compensate for a loss in revenue, and we may not be able to obtain the needed financing. See the heading “If we, or our subsidiaries, encounter unforeseen difficulties and cannot obtain additional funding on favorable terms, our business may suffer” above. THE MARKETS SERVED BY OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, AND IF OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND ACQUIRE NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PATENTS, ITS REVENUES COULD STOP GROWING OR COULD DECLINE. The markets served by our operating subsidiaries’ licensees frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. Products for communications applications, high-speed computing applications, as well as other applications covered by our operating subsidiaries’ intellectual property, are based on continually evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete in the future will, however, depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. This will require our continued efforts and success of acquiring new patent portfolios with licensing and enforcement opportunities. However, we expect to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources for the foreseeable future in order to maintain the level of acquisitions we believe we need to keep pace with these technological advances. However, outside influences may cause the need for greater liquidity and capital resources than expected, as described under the caption “Because our business operations are subject to many uncontrollable outside influences, we may not succeed” above. THE RECENT FINANCIAL CRISIS AND CURRENT UNCERTAINTY IN GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Our revenue-generating opportunities depend on the use of our patented technologies by existing and prospective licensees, the overall demand for the products and services of our licensees, and on the overall economic and financial health of our licensees. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, many of our licensees’ customers, which may rely on credit financing, may delay or reduce their purchases of our licensees’ products and services. In addition, the use or adoption of our patented technologies is often based on current and forecasted demand for our licensees’ products and services in the marketplace and may require companies to make significant initial commitments of capital and other resources. If the negative conditions in the global credit markets delay or prevent our licensees’ and their customers’ access to credit, overall consumer spending on the products and services of our licensees may decrease and the adoption or use of our patented technologies may slow, respectively. Further, if the markets in which our licensees’ participate experience further economic downturns, as well as a slow recovery period, this could negatively impact our licensees’ long-term sales and revenue generation, margins and operating expenses, which could impact the magnitude of revenues generated or projected to be generated by our licensees, which could have a material impact on our business, license fee generating opportunities, operating results and financial condition. 11 In addition, we have significant patent related intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our patent related intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our consolidated financial results. There can be no assurance that the outcome of such reviews in the future will not result in substantial impairment charges. Impairment assessment inherently involves judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Although we believe the assumptions we used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE AVAILABILITY OF SHARES FOR SALE IN THE FUTURE COULD REDUCE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for operations and or acquisitions. We may also pay for interests in additional subsidiary companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common stock. Any of these events may dilute stockholders ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. DELAWARE LAW AND OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS CONTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD DISCOURAGE OR PREVENT A POTENTIAL TAKEOVER OF OUR COMPANY THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE RESULT IN OUR STOCKHOLDERS RECEIVING A PREMIUM OVER THE MARKET PRICE OF THEIR SHARES. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the following more difficult: the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: ● Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; ● amendment of our bylaws by the stockholders requires a two-thirds approval of the outstanding shares; ● the authorization in our certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover; ● provisions in our bylaws eliminating stockholders’ rights to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to wage a proxy contest for control of our board of directors or to vote to repeal any of the anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and ● the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms for each class, which could make it more difficult for an outsider to gain control of our board of directors. Such potential obstacles to a takeover could adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to receive a premium price for their stock in the event another company wants to acquire us. 12 AS A RESULT OF THE REDEMPTION OF ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX LIABILITY UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Our distribution of the common stock of CombiMatrix in the Split-Off Transaction will be tax-free to us if the distribution qualifies under Sections 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. If the Split-Off Transaction fails to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, corporate tax would be payable by the consolidated group as of the date of the Split-Off Transaction, of which we are the common parent, based upon the difference between the aggregate fair market value of the assets of CombiMatrix’s business and the adjusted tax bases of such business to us prior to the redemption. We received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, to the effect that, among other things, the redemption would be tax free to us and the holders of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock and Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock under Sections 368 and 355 of the Code. The private letter ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, was based upon factual representations and assumptions and commitments on our behalf with respect to future operations made in the ruling request. The IRS could modify or revoke the private letter ruling retroactively if the factual representations and assumptions in the request were materially incomplete or untrue, the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts at the time of the redemption, or if we do not comply with certain commitments made. If the Split-Off Transaction fails to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, corporate tax, if any, would be payable by the consolidated group of which we are the common parent, as described above. As such, the corporate level tax would be payable by us. CombiMatrix has agreed however, to indemnify us for this and certain other tax liabilities if they result from actions taken by CombiMatrix. Notwithstanding CombiMatrix’s agreement to indemnify us, under the Code’s consolidated return regulations, each member of our consolidated group, including our company, will be severally liable for these tax liabilities. Further, we may be liable for additional taxes if we take certain actions within two years following the redemption, as more fully discussed in the immediately following risk factor. If we are found liable to the IRS for these liabilities, the resulting obligation could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and we may be unable to recover on the indemnity from CombiMatrix. FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION OF ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX LIABILITIES UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE FOR ACTIONS TAKEN BY US OR COMBIMATRIX FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION. Even if the distribution qualifies under Section 368 and 355 of the Code, it will be taxable to us if Section 355(e) of the Code applies to the distribution. Section 355(e) will apply if 50% or more of our common stock or CombiMatrix’s common stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, other than the holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock who receive the common stock of CombiMatrix in the redemption, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the redemption. Any shares of our common stock, the Acacia Research-CombiMatrix stock or the common stock of CombiMatrix acquired directly or indirectly within two years before or after the redemption generally are presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. To prevent applicability of Section 355(e) or to otherwise prevent the distribution from failing to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, CombiMatrix has agreed that, until two years after the redemption, it will not take any of the following actions unless prior to taking such action, it has obtained, and provided to us, a written opinion of tax counsel or a ruling from the IRS to the effect that such action will not cause the redemption to be taxable to us, which we refer to in this report collectively as Disqualifying Actions: ● merge or consolidate with another corporation; ● liquidate or partially liquidate; ● sell or transfer all or substantially all of its assets; ● redeem or repurchase its stock (except in certain limited circumstances); or ● take any other action which could reasonably be expected to cause Section 355(e) to apply to the distribution. 13 Further, if we take any Disqualifying Action, we may be subject to additional tax liability. Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions and may issue their stock to complete acquisitions, expand their product offerings and speed the development of new technology. Therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. Substantial uncertainty exists on the scope of Section 355(e), and we may have undertaken, may contemplate undertaking or may otherwise undertake in the future transactions which may cause Section 355(e) to apply to the redemption notwithstanding our desire or intent to avoid application of Section 355(e). Accordingly, we cannot provide you any assurance that we will not be liable for taxes if Section 355(e) applies to the redemption. WE MAY FAIL TO MEET MARKET EXPECTATIONS BECAUSE OF FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. Our reported revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that in future periods, revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: ● the dollar amount of agreements executed in each period, which is primarily driven by the nature and characteristics of the technology being licensed and the magnitude of infringement associated with a specific licensee; ● the specific terms and conditions of agreements executed in each period and the periods of infringement contemplated by the respective payments; ● fluctuations in the total number of agreements executed; ● fluctuations in the sales results or other royalty-per-unit activities of our licensees that impact the calculation of license fees due; ● the timing of the receipt of periodic license fee payments and/or reports from licensees; ● fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period; ● costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations; ● the timing of payments under the terms of any customer or license agreements into which our operating subsidiaries may enter; and ● expenses related to, and the timing and results of, patent filings and other enforcement proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, as more fully described in this section. TECHNOLOGY COMPANY STOCK PRICES ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND THIS VOLATILITY MAY DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: ● announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; ● developments or disputes concerning our patents; ● our or our competitors’ technological innovations; ● developments in relationships with licensees; 14 ● variations in our quarterly operating results; ● our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations of our financial results; ● a change in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations; ● changes in management’s or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; ● changes in market valuations of similar companies; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; and ● failure to complete significant transactions. For example, the NASDAQ Computer Index had a range of $582.76 - $1,288.12 during the 52-weeks ended December 31, 2008 and the NASDAQ Composite Index had a range of $1,295.48 - $2,661.50 over the same period. Over the same period, our common stock fluctuated within a range of $1.87 - $9.30. The financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions, which began in late 2007 and continued throughout 2008, have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. As noted above, our stock price, like many other stocks, has decreased substantially recently and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a continuing worldwide economic downturn, our stock price could further decrease. In addition, we believe that fluctuations in our stock price during applicable periods can also be impacted by court rulings and or other developments in our patent enforcement actions. Court rulings in patent enforcement actions are often difficult to understand, even when favorable or neutral to the value of our patents and our overall business, and we believe that investors in the market may overreact, causing fluctuations in our stock prices that may not accurately reflect the impact of court rulings on our business operations and assets. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If our common stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business and financial results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 