Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. As used in this Form 10-K, “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Acacia Research Corporation and/or its wholly owned operating subsidiaries. All intellectual property acquisition, development, licensing and enforcement activities are conducted solely by certain of Acacia Research Corporation’s wholly owned operating subsidiaries. GENERAL RISKS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND WILL PROBABLY INCUR ADDITIONAL LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have sustained substantial losses since our inception resulting in a consolidated net accumulated deficit, as disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Acacia Research Corporation included in Part IV Item 15 of this report. We may never become profitable, or if we do, we may never be able to sustain profitability. We expect to incur significant legal, marketing, general and administrative expenses. As a result, it is more likely than not that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. BECAUSE WE HAVE SUSTAINED LOSSES SINCE OUR INCEPTION, WE CANNOT ASSURE THAT OUR OPERATIONS WILL BE PROFITABLE. We commenced operations in 1993 and, we have sustained substantial losses since our inception resulting in a net consolidated accumulated deficit, as disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Acacia Research Corporation included in Part IV Item 15 of this report. If we continue to incur operating losses in future periods, we may not have enough capital to expand our business and our operating subsidiary companies’ businesses in the future. IF WE, OR OUR SUBSIDIARIES, ENCOUNTER UNFORESEEN DIFFICULTIES AND CANNOT OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDING ON FAVORABLE TERMS, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. Acacia Research Corporation's consolidated cash and cash equivalents along with short-term investments totaled $51.4 million and $45.0 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. To date, Acacia Research Corporation has relied primarily upon selling of equity securities and payments from our licensees to generate the funds needed to finance the operations of Acacia Research Corporation and our operating subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties, including the outside influences identified below, that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, our subsidiary companies may be required to obtain additional financing through bank borrowings, debt or equity financings or otherwise, which would require us to make additional investments or face a dilution of our equity interests. Any efforts to seek additional funds could be made through equity, debt or other external financings. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that additional funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed for our subsidiary companies and ourselves, we may not be able to execute our business plans and our business may suffer. 6 FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR GROWTH COULD PLACE STRAINS ON OUR MANAGERIAL, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as our subsidiary companies’ businesses grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our subsidiary companies or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR ORGANIZATION TO MATCH THE GROWTH OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES. As our subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon Acacia Research Corporation and on our operating subsidiaries, will grow, and our success will depend upon our ability to meet those demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support, and general office services. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of our control. Further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. THE AVAILABILITY OF SHARES FOR SALE IN THE FUTURE COULD REDUCE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions. We may also pay for interests in additional subsidiary companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common stock. Any of these events may dilute stockholders ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. DELAWARE LAW AND OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS CONTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD DISCOURAGE OR PREVENT A POTENTIAL TAKEOVER OF ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE RESULT IN OUR STOCKHOLDERS RECEIVING A PREMIUM OVER THE MARKET PRICE OF THEIR SHARES. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the following more difficult: the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: · section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; · amendment of our bylaws by the stockholders requires a two-thirds approval of the outstanding shares; · the authorization in our certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover; · provisions in our bylaws eliminating stockholders’ rights to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to wage a proxy contest for control of our board of directors or to vote to repeal any of the anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and · the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms for each class, which could make it more difficult for an outsider to gain control of our board of directors. Such potential obstacles to a takeover could adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to receive a premium price for their stock in the event another company wants to acquire us. 7 AS A RESULT OF THE REDEMPTION OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX LIABILITY UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Our distribution of the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation in the redemption will be tax-free to Acacia Research Corporation if the distribution qualifies under Sections 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the split-off failed to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate tax would be payable by the consolidated group of which Acacia Research Corporation is the common parent, based upon the difference between the aggregate fair market value of the assets of CombiMatrix Corporation’s business and the adjusted tax bases of such business to Acacia Research Corporation prior to the redemption. Acacia Research Corporation received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the redemption would be tax free to Acacia Research Corporation and the holders of AR-Acacia Technologies stock and AR-CombiMatrix stock under Sections 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, was based upon factual representations and assumptions and commitments on our behalf with respect to future operations made in the ruling request. The IRS could modify or revoke the private letter ruling retroactively if the factual representations and assumptions in the request were materially incomplete or untrue, the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts at the time of the redemption, or if we do not meet certain commitments made. If the split-off failed to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate tax, if any, would be payable by the consolidated group of which Acacia Research Corporation is the common parent, as described above. As such, the corporate level tax would be payable by Acacia Research Corporation. CombiMatrix Corporation has agreed however, to indemnify Acacia Research Corporation for this and certain other tax liabilities if they result from actions taken by CombiMatrix Corporation. Notwithstanding CombiMatrix Corporation’s agreement to indemnify us, under the Internal Revenue Code’s consolidated return regulations, each member of the Acacia Research Corporation consolidated group, including our company, will be severally liable for these tax liabilities. Further, we may be liable for additional taxes if Acacia Research Corporation takes certain actions within two years following the redemption, as more fully discussed in the immediately following risk factor. If we are found liable to the IRS for these liabilities, the resulting obligation could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and we may be unable to recover on the indemnity from CombiMatrix Corporation. FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX LIABILITY UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE FOR ACTIONS TAKEN BY EITHER OF THEM FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION. Even if the distribution qualifies under Section 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, it will be taxable to Acacia if Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code applies to the distribution. Section 355(e) will apply if 50% or more of the AR-Acacia Technologies stock or CombiMatrix Corporation’s common stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, other than the holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock who receive the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation in the redemption, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the redemption. Any shares of the AR-Acacia Technologies stock, the AR-CombiMatrix stock or the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation acquired directly or indirectly within two years before or after the redemption generally are presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. To prevent applicability of Section 355(e) or to otherwise prevent the distribution from failing to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, CombiMatrix Corporation has agreed that, until two years after the redemption, it will not take any of the following actions unless prior to taking such action, it has obtained (and provided to us) a written opinion of tax counsel or a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such action will not cause the redemption to be taxable to us (collectively “Disqualifying Actions”): • merge or consolidate with another corporation; • liquidate or partially liquidate; • sell or transfer all or substantially all of its assets; • redeem or repurchase its stock (except in certain limited circumstances); or • take any other action which could reasonably be expected to cause Section 355(e) to apply to the distribution. 8 Further, if Acacia Research Corporation takes any Disqualifying Action, we may be subject to additional tax liability. Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions and may issue their stock to complete acquisitions, expand their product offerings and speed the development of new technology. Therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. Substantial uncertainty exists on the scope of Section 355(e), and we may have undertaken, may contemplate undertaking or may otherwise undertake in the future transactions which may cause Section 355(e) to apply to the redemption notwithstanding our desire or intent to avoid application of Section 355(e). Accordingly, we cannot provide you any assurance that we will not be liable for taxes if Section 355(e) applies to the redemption. BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO MANY UNCONTROLLABLE OUTSIDE INFLUENCES, WE MAY NOT SUCCEED. Our licensing and enforcement business operations are subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: · New legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease our revenue. Our operating subsidiaries acquire patents with enforcement opportunities and are spending a significant amount of resources to enforce those patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. While we are not aware that any such changes are likely to occur in the foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that such changes will not occur. · Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. · More patent applications are filed each year resulting in longer delays in getting patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Certain of our operating subsidiaries hold and continue to acquire pending patents. We have identified a trend of increasing patent applications each year, which we believe is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. The application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. See the subheading “Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents,” below. · Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over our actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater affect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. · Any reductions in the funding of the United States Patent and Trademark Office could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. The assets of our operating subsidiaries consists of patent portfolios, including pending patent applications before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The value of our patent portfolios is dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could negatively impact the value of our assets. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses. 9 · Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents. We expect to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. Companies such as British Technology Group, Rembrandt Management Group, and Intellectual Ventures LLC are already in the business of acquiring the rights to patents for the purpose of licensing and enforcement, and we expect more companies to enter the market. As new technological advances occur, many of our patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If we are unable to replace obsolete technologies with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on our ability to generate future revenues. Our licensing business also competes with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than our company. As we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue. · Our patented technologies face uncertain market value. Our operating subsidiaries have acquired patents and technologies that are at early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. Refer to the related risk factor below. · As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our company. · The foregoing outside influences may affect other risk factors described in this annual report. Any one of the foregoing outside influences may cause our company to need additional financing to meet the challenges presented or to compensate for a loss in revenue, and we may not be able to obtain the needed financing. See the heading “If we, or our subsidiaries, encounter unforeseen difficulties and cannot obtain additional funding on favorable terms, our business may suffer” above. WE MAY FAIL TO MEET MARKET EXPECTATIONS BECAUSE OF FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. Our reported revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that in future periods revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: · the dollar amount of agreements executed each period, which is primarily driven by the nature and characteristics of the technology being licensed and the magnitude of infringement associated with a specific licensee; · the specific terms and conditions of agreements executed each period and the periods of infringement contemplated by the respective payments; · fluctuations in the total number of agreements executed; 10 · fluctuations in the sales results or other royalty per unit activities of our licensees that impact the calculation of license fees due; · the timing of the receipt of periodic license fee payments and/or reports from licensees; · fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period; · costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations; · the timing of payments under the terms of any customer or license agreements into which our operating subsidiaries may enter; and · expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other enforcement proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, as more fully described in this section. OUR REVENUES WILL BE UNPREDICTABLE, AND THIS MAY HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. Acacia Global Acquisition Corporation's acquisition of the assets of Global Patent Holdings, LLC in 2005, provided us with ownership of companies that control 27 patent portfolios, which include 120 U.S. patents and certain foreign counterparts. Rights to additional patent portfolios were acquired subsequent to the acquisition of the assets of Global Patent Holdings, bringing the current total number of patent portfolios controlled by Acacia Research Corporation’s operating subsidiaries to approximately 91, covering technologies used in a wide variety of industries. The acquisitions expand and diversify our revenue generating opportunities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalent balances, anticipated cash flow from operations and other external sources of available credit, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements through at least March 2009, and for the foreseeable future. However, due to the nature of our licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license fees from potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of our existing licensees and other factors, we cannot currently predict the amount and timing of the receipt of license fee revenues with a sufficient degree of precision. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage and cause our quarterly results to be below market expectations. If this happens, the price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may decline significantly. OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES DEPEND UPON RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHERS TO PROVIDE TECHNOLOGY-BASED OPPORTUNITIES THAT CAN DEVELOP INTO PROFITABLE ROYALTY-BEARING LICENSES, AND IF IT IS UNABLE TO MAINTAIN AND GENERATE NEW RELATIONSHIPS, THEN IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN EXISTING LEVELS OF REVENUE OR INCREASE REVENUE. Our operating subsidiaries do not invent new technologies or products; they depend on acquiring new patents and inventions through their relationships with inventors, universities, research institutions, and others. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to maintain those relationships and continue to grow new relationships, then they may not be able to identify new technology-based opportunities for growth and sustainable revenue. Further, because we rely upon acquiring technology from others, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the volume and quality of available new technologies necessary to sustain our current or future growth. If we are unable to obtain the necessary volume and quality of new technologies, then we may need to reduce operations or revise our business model. TECHNOLOGY COMPANY STOCK PRICES ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND THIS VOLATILITY MAY DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: · announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; · developments or disputes concerning our patents; · our or our competitors’ technological innovations; · developments in relationships with licensees; 11 · variations in our quarterly operating results; · our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations of our financial results; or · a change in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations; · changes in management’s or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; and · failure to complete significant transactions. For example, the Nasdaq Computer Index had a range of $1,008.96 - $1,353.94 during the 52-weeks ended December 31, 2007 and the Nasdaq Composite Index had a range of $1,108.49 - $2,892.36 over the same period. Over the same period, our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock fluctuated within a range of $8.42 - $17.92, all of which was experienced in the fourth quarter. We believe fluctuations in our stock price during this period could have been impacted by court rulings in our patent enforcement actions. Court rulings in patent enforcement actions are often difficult to understand, even when favorable or neutral to the value of our patents and our overall business, and we believe that investors in the market may overreact, causing fluctuations in our stock prices that may not accurately reflect the impact of court rulings on our business operations and assets. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business and financial results. THE MARKETS SERVED BY OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, AND IF OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND ACQUIRE NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PATENTS, ITS REVENUES COULD STOP GROWING OR COULD DECLINE. The markets served by our operating subsidiaries’ licensees frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. Products for communications applications, high-speed computing applications, as well as other applications covered by our operating subsidiaries’ intellectual property, are based on continually evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete in the future will, however, depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. This will require our continued efforts and success of acquiring new patent portfolios with licensing and enforcement opportunities. However, we expect to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources for the foreseeable future in order to maintain the level of acquisitions we believe we need to keep pace with these technological advances. However, outside influences may cause the need for greater liquidity and capital resources than expected, as described under the caption “Because our business operations are subject to many uncontrollable outside influences, we may not succeed” above. THE SUCCESS OF OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES DEPENDS IN PART UPON THEIR ABILITY TO RETAIN THE BEST LEGAL COUNSEL TO REPRESENT THEM IN PATENT ENFORCEMENT LITIGATION. The success of our licensing business depends upon our operating subsidiaries’ ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. As our operating subsidiaries’ patent enforcement actions increase, it will become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents its representation of our subsidiary companies. OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES, IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, RELY ON REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND OPINIONS MADE BY THIRD PARTIES, THAT IF DETERMINED TO BE FALSE OR INACCURATE, MAY EXPOSE CERTAIN OF OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES TO CERTAIN LIABILITIES THAT COULD BE MATERIAL. From time to time, our operating subsidiaries may rely upon representations and warranties made by third parties from whom certain of our operating subsidiaries acquired patents or the exclusive rights to license and enforce patents. We also may rely upon the opinions of purported experts. In certain instances, we may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. By relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, our operating subsidiaries may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights. It is difficult to predict the extent and nature of such liabilities which, in some instances, may be material. 12 IN CONNECTION WITH PATENT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS CONDUCTED BY CERTAIN OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES, A COURT MAY RULE THAT OUR SUBSIDIARIES HAVE VIOLATED CERTAIN STATUTORY, REGULATORY, FEDERAL, LOCAL OR GOVERNING RULES OR STANDARDS, WHICH MAY EXPOSE US AND OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES TO MATERIAL LIABILITIES, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND OUR FINANCIAL POSITION. In connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or our operating subsidiaries or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if required to be paid by us or our operating subsidiaries, could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. OUR INVESTMENTS IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS, INCLUDING THE CONTINUED FAILURE OF FUTURE AUCTIONS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR LOSSES OR HAVE REDUCED LIQUIDITY. We invest our cash balances in high-quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer other than the United States government and its agencies. At December 31, 2007, our investments in marketable securities consist of United States Government and Government Agency Bonds, and auction rate securities. Our auction rate securities are investment grade quality and are in compliance with our investment policy as of the end of 2007. We believe that the fair value of these investments continue to approximate their par value; however, we did experience failed auctions with certain of our issues in February 2008. Given the deteriorating credit markets, and the increased incidence of failure within the auction market in February 2008, there can be no assurance as to when we would be able to liquidate a particular issue. In such case of a failure, the auction rate securities continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms; however, we may not be able to access the par value of the invested funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, the security is called by the issuer or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. Furthermore, if this situation were to persist despite our ability to hold such investments until maturity, we may be required to record an impairment charge in a future period. The systemic failure of future auctions for auction rate securities may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. See Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our investments in marketable securities. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 