RISK FACTORS UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS PROPERTIES LEGAL PROCEEDINGS SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PAGE 3 4 11 11 18 19 19 19 PART II ITEM 5. ITEM 6. ITEM 7. ITEM 7A. ITEM 8. ITEM 9. ITEM 9A. ITEM 9B. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES OTHER INFORMATION 20 20 21 30 31 56 56 56 PART III ITEM 10. ITEM 11. ITEM 12. ITEM 13. ITEM 14. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 57 57 57 57 57 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES 58 60 2 PART I Introduction — Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not purely historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on management's estimates, projections and assumptions that underlie such statements at the time they are made. Forward-looking statements in the discussion of our business, properties and legal matters include, without limitation, statements regarding: trends in the semiconductor industry that are driving growth for our products, including the adoption of copper as an interconnect material, spray processing supplanting immersion technologies and the continued expansion of the wafer level packaging market, Semitool's solutions and strategies for electrochemical deposition, wafer surface preparation and wafer level packaging, including our intent to continue investing in research and development to maintain and expand our position as a technology leader in those markets, our plan to develop new technologies, including porous silicon, 3D packaging and wafer thinning, to enable us to enter emerging markets and provide innovative solutions, our plan to leverage our Raider platform with both our current and potential new customers and in new markets, our plan to enhance our relationships with our major customers and identify opportunities to develop similar relationships with other semiconductor device manufacturers, our intent to expand our sales and support organization to broaden customer reach, particularly in Asia, and the potential for growth in those markets, our anticipation of continued strong sales in the Asian market in fiscal 2007, the performance and acceptance of our products, including the continued technological improvement of our tools and the success of our Raider platform, manufacturing strategy, including our vertical manufacturing structure and manufacturing strategies for increasing performance reliability and yields while reducing the cost of ownership of our tools, competition, including our ability to compete favorably with companies significantly larger than we are, our efforts to protect our intellectual property portfolio and intent to continue to file patent applications to protect that intellectual property, the adequacy of our existing manufacturing facilities, the ability to maintain our worldwide sales, service and customer support organizations, and the impact of litigation on our business, including patent disputes. Other forward-looking statements made below under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere include statements relating to: accounting policies and estimates and the effects of new accounting standards, research and development expenses, including expected fluctuations in such expenses in absolute dollar amounts and as a percentage of net sales, and our expectation of continued funding of research and development to attain technology leadership in our industry, the expected geographic sales mix of our products, including our anticipation of strong sales in Asia in fiscal 2007, the expectation that our transition to a direct sales and service presence in Asia will improve our profitability, estimates of capital expenditures and the sufficiency of funds and sources of financing to make expected capital expenditures through fiscal 2007, the impact of various factors on gross margin, inventory management, the sufficiency of funds and the ability to finance activities, including sources of liquidity, our expectation that existing debt financing arrangements and cash flows generated from operating activities will be sufficient to fund operations at current and projected levels, and our expectation that, if additional financial resources are required, we will have the ability to issue securities from our shelf registration statement, issue other financial instruments or borrow money. Management cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties are detailed under the heading “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, changed circumstances, or the occurrence of unanticipated events. 3 Item 1. Business Overview We design, manufacture, install and service highly-sophisticated equipment for use in the fabrication of semiconductor devices. Our products are focused on the wet chemical process steps in integrated circuit, or IC, manufacturing and include systems for wafer surface preparation and electrochemical deposition, or ECD, applications. Our surface preparation systems are designed for wet cleaning, stripping and etching processes, including photoresist and polymer removal and metal etching. Our ECD systems are used to plate copper and other metals, which are used for the IC’s internal wiring, or interconnects; to plate solder and lead free solder bumps for wafer level packaging applications; and to plate other metals for various semiconductor and related applications. Our products address critical applications within the semiconductor manufacturing process, and help enable our customers to manufacture more advanced semiconductor devices that feature higher levels of performance. The fabrication of semiconductor devices typically requires several hundred manufacturing steps, with the number of steps continuing to increase for advanced devices. Due to the breadth of our product portfolio and advanced technology capabilities, our solutions address over 150 of these manufacturing steps. Semitool, Inc., a Montana corporation, was founded in 1979 and is headquartered in Kalispell, Montana. Our mailing address is 655 West Reserve Drive, Kalispell, MT 59901 and our telephone number is 406-752-2107. Additional information about the Company is available on our Web site at http://www.semitool.com. On our Investor Relations page on our Web site, we post the following filings as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our own Investor Relations web page are available to be viewed free of charge. Information contained on our Web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Form 10-K and other filings also are available at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Web site at http://www.sec.gov. Industry Background Growth in the semiconductor industry is driven by the global demand for semiconductor devices that are incorporated in a broad array of electronics devices such as personal computers, network servers, digital televisions, audio systems including MP3 players, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, GPS devices and other wireless communications devices. The market for semiconductor equipment used to fabricate semiconductor devices has also experienced significant growth, driven by greater demand for, and increasingly higher performance of, semiconductor devices. Though subject to a high degree of cyclicality due to periods of excess supply or demand for semiconductor equipment, semiconductor devices and semiconductor fab capacity utilization, the market for semiconductor equipment is characterized by rapid technological development and product innovation. As a result, to meet new technological advancements, semiconductor device manufacturers may purchase new semiconductor equipment despite the timing of the market cycle. Semiconductor Manufacturing Process Overview Semiconductor devices consist of millions of microscopic transistors and other components that electronically store information and allow the execution of instructions used to operate electronic devices. Fabrication of ICs involves hundreds of complex and repetitive process steps, involving an array of sophisticated manufacturing equipment, chemical media, and materials. The fabrication process includes, among others, the deposition of multiple layers of dielectric or insulating films and electrically conducting metal films. After the deposition of each film layer, the fabrication process continues with repeated cleaning, stripping and etching processes to prepare the surface for the next process. When completed, the wafer may contain several hundred ICs, which are traditionally then separated by a dicing process. The ICs are then packaged by connecting them to pins using metal wires or contacts and encapsulating the ICs in a polymer. In an effort to reduce the size of packaged ICs, some manufacturers are using newer packaging processes such as wafer level packaging, which allows for packaging of ICs before they are singularized. The packaged semiconductor devices can then be placed into an electronic product, such as a cellular phone or other portable electronic device. Cleaning, stripping, etching or otherwise preparing the wafer surface are steps repeated throughout the semiconductor fabrication process as well as in the wafer level packaging process. These processes are important, since the integrity of the next process depends on the effectiveness of prior cleaning, stripping, or etching steps. Immersion and spray are two fundamental means by which surface preparation wet process steps are performed. Immersion processes, or wet benches, are a series of liquid-filled tanks in which wafers are immersed. The wafers are transported from one tank to another tank by robots or human operators. Spray delivery systems subject wafers to sequential spray applications of chemicals inside an enclosed process chamber, where the chemical is brought to the wafers while the wafers rotate on axis. Spray systems can be configured to process wafers in a batch or single-wafer mode. Single-wafer processor systems can provide a combination of spray and immersion processes. 4 An IC’s interconnect wiring establishes the connections between transistors within an IC to external devices. Interconnects are formed by the deposition of metal film layers, such as copper, on the surface of a wafer. The deposition step occurs numerous times throughout the manufacturing process, with advanced ICs possessing seven or more metal film layers. As device dimensions continue to shrink, the connections between transistors add noticeably more delay to IC processing speeds, due to the intrinsic resistance and capacitance of the interconnect material. Copper is the material of choice in such situations and practically all 300mm fabs use copper plating equipment. However, copper, unlike aluminum, is difficult to handle due to a negative reaction in direct contact with silicon, which leads to lower yield and potentially contaminates other manufacturing processes. As a result, copper-based manufacturing requires more critical surface preparation steps and special processing techniques to provide complete isolation of the copper material. Trends in Semiconductor Manufacturing There are several key trends in the semiconductor manufacturing industry driving growth in demand for wafer surface preparation, ECD and other advanced semiconductor equipment: Smaller Device Features for Lower Cost and Higher Performance. Semiconductor device size has followed Moore’s Law which states that on average every 18 months a device doubles in power and shrinks 50%. The continuing trend towards more advanced electronics applications has spurred the industry’s transition to smaller device features, enabling lower cost per IC, as more ICs can be fabricated on each wafer. Additionally, smaller device features operate at higher speeds and require less power. As the industry moves to 65 nanometer feature sizes and below, the IC fabrication process becomes significantly more complex, requiring more stringent manufacturing specifications and lower acceptable margins of error. In particular, the fabrication process becomes more susceptible to ever smaller particles, requiring the use of more advanced surface preparation equipment. Also, manufacturing smaller IC interconnects often requires the use of equipment specifically designed for copper processing. New Materials to Fabricate More Advanced Semiconductor Devices. The need to fabricate increasingly advanced semiconductor devices has led to more complex manufacturing processes that use new materials, such as low-k dielectrics and copper to form an IC’s interconnect. The use of copper, in particular, presents significant processing challenges to prevent copper contamination measured in quantities at the atomic level. To address these challenges, dedicated processes have been developed to provide better isolation of copper materials on an IC, including dual-damascene, barrier layer formation, and new cleaning processes to remove unwanted copper. These complex, dedicated processes require the use of equipment for the precise deposition of copper material. Additionally, the introduction of new materials requires a higher number of surface preparation steps, as well as more advanced cleaning processes that are tailored to handle these new materials. Increased Use of 300mm Wafers to Reduce Manufacturing Costs. Leading semiconductor device manufacturers are investing in 300mm wafer fabs. The 125% more surface area of 300mm compared to 200mm wafers has led to higher manufacturing efficiency and lower cost per IC due to the economies of scale that IC manufacturers achieve by processing additional die per wafer. Processing a larger surface area requires an additional level of control and precision, which necessitates the purchase of semiconductor equipment that is specifically targeted for the processing of 300mm wafers. Move to Single-Wafer Spray and Immersion Processing Technologies for Enhanced Surface Preparation. The industry shift towards smaller device dimensions, new materials and 300mm wafer processing has driven the need for more advanced surface preparation technologies and process equipment. In particular, 300mm is causing a move to single-wafer processing as the process can be controlled more precisely compared to wet bench technology. For example, single-wafer spray processing is increasingly being used instead of wet benches due to its greater process control, reduced footprint and reduced chemical consumption. Wafer Level and Other Advanced Packaging Enable Smaller Portable Products. New packaging technologies, including wafer level packaging, are being developed by the industry to enable smaller portable products such as GPSs, MP3 players, mobile phones and radio frequency identification, or RFID, tags. Advanced packaging is an enabling technology for the semiconductor industry, as it allows the integration of more computing and information processing power in a smaller space than conventional packaging technology. Advanced packaging uses fabrication processes similar to IC fabrication and includes, among others, ECD for connective solder or gold bumps, photoresist stripping and under-bump metal etching. Emerging Need for Thinner Wafers Driven by the Demand for Smaller Portable Devices. The desire for smaller, lighter and more power efficient devices has led to the need for thinning the device prior to packaging. Another emerging trend is 3-D device stacking for more functionality in a smaller space. This process is also enhanced by first thinning the device. The main problem with wafer thinning is yield loss due to stress caused by mechanically grinding the wafer surface. This process is also labor intensive. Chemically milling the wafer, which can be automated, has emerged as a method to achieve stress-free thin wafers. 5 Semitool’s Solution We are a leading provider of wet chemical processing equipment, targeting wafer surface preparation and ECD plating applications. As the semiconductor manufacturing process increases in complexity and production parameters become even more stringent, semiconductor manufacturers increasingly rely upon manufacturers of semiconductor equipment to achieve improved process control, provide a smaller equipment footprint and lower the cost of ownership of their manufacturing processes. Our solutions address critical applications within the semiconductor manufacturing process, and enable our customers to manufacture more advanced semiconductor devices that feature higher levels of performance. Key elements of our solution include: Technology Leadership. We are able to leverage our extensive expertise in wet chemical processing and over 27 years of experience building and supporting production-proven semiconductor manufacturing equipment. We utilize our advanced modeling techniques in the design of our reactors to address an increasingly complex manufacturing process. We have a strong intellectual property portfolio with 322 U.S. patents issued and approximately 193 U.S. patents pending. Comprehensive Product Portfolio. We provide a broad suite of advanced, highly-sophisticated, innovative processing systems that include surface preparation and ECD equipment. Our batch and single-wafer processing systems for wet cleaning, stripping and etching feature our proprietary spray and immersion technologies, as well as our unique, proprietary process chamber designs. We use advanced computational techniques to design a variety of applications, including plating chambers, and our proprietary Capsule technology for back-side and bevel-edge cleaning of copper contamination. Raider Platform. Our Raider platform is a high-precision, multi-chamber, single-wafer platform that supports surface preparation and ECD applications. Our proprietary platform is configured in a linear design, coupled with our own robotic technology, allowing for up to 12 interchangeable discrete process chambers. The Raider platform also features no-teach robot technology which results in reduced installation and maintenance costs. Vertically-Integrated Manufacturing and Design Capabilities. Our manufacturing operations are selectively vertically-integrated to include metals and plastics fabrication and finishing capabilities, component manufacturing and final product test and assembly and extensive product development capabilities. Our facilities feature high-volume manufacturing lines that provide short lead time delivery of our products. In addition, we perform product development and prototyping internally. This strategy reduces our products’ time to market and helps lower our design and manufacturing costs. Strategy Our objective is to be the leading worldwide provider of wet chemical processing equipment, targeting wafer surface preparation and ECD applications. To achieve this goal, we are pursuing the following strategies: Target Innovative, High-Margin, High-Growth Opportunities with Differentiated Products. Our strategy is to be the first to enter new, high-growth markets with differentiated products. This has provided us with early market and technology leadership and enabled us to achieve strong gross margins. For example, we were among the first to target the rapidly-growing wafer level packaging and ECD markets. Maintain and Expand Technology Leadership. We intend to continue investing in research and development to maintain and expand our position as a technology leader in surface preparation and ECD. Our goal is to deliver leading-edge technical innovation to our customers by focusing on performance, improved system reliability, yield enhancement and a low cost of ownership. We plan to develop new technologies, such as porous silicon, to enable us to enter emerging markets and provide innovative solutions to meet customer needs. Leverage our Raider Platform to Further Penetrate New Customer and Market Opportunities. Our Raider platform features proprietary surface preparation, ECD, and wafer handling technologies. We continue to enhance the capabilities of our Raider platform and thus broaden its customer appeal by expanding its portfolio of wet chemical processing capabilities. We plan to leverage our Raider platform with both our current and potential new customers, in our existing markets, as well as in new markets. Integrate Design and Manufacturing Expertise. Our strategy is one of close integration of design and manufacturing, coupled with selective vertical manufacturing to achieve innovative solutions, cost and quality advantages and to reduce the time to market for new products and product enhancements. We believe that the close coordination of our engineering and manufacturing teams provides us with an advantage in developing new products as well as improving the design of our current products to increase performance reliability and manufacturing yields while reducing costs. Additionally, our control over selective critical components reduces our dependence on component suppliers. 6 Leverage Strategic Relationships. For over 27 years, we have focused on satisfying the needs of worldwide semiconductor device manufacturers and establishing long-term relationships with our customers. We work with select customers at the concept and design stages to identify and respond to their requests for current and future generations of products. These close working relationships allow us to understand and address the performance and cost expectations of our customers. We plan to enhance our relationships with our major customers and identify opportunities to develop similar relationships with additional semiconductor device manufacturers. Expand Our Asian Market Presence. During the past several years we have expanded our presence in Asia, and revenue from Asia now comprises a significant percentage of our total net sales. We currently have sales organizations in Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, Korea, and China, and we intend to continue to expand our sales and applications support organization to broaden our customer reach. We believe that the Asia region, in particular Taiwan and China, has the potential for additional significant long-term growth. Our sales, marketing and service strategy is to expand our installed base of equipment with existing and potential new customers in these regions. Technology We are a leader in the design, development and manufacturing of advanced, wet chemical processing equipment. We leverage our years of experience in designing and manufacturing production-proven semiconductor manufacturing equipment to deliver solutions that enable the fabrication of increasingly higher performance semiconductor devices. We have several key technological core competencies, including advanced computational modeling, and have assembled a development team with extensive engineering and modeling expertise to capitalize on these competencies. Our surface preparation systems incorporate our innovative cleaning technology, such as our new megasonic cleaning chamber and our new precision etch chamber. Through the use of its enclosed architecture, our processing chambers are able to process a wafer in a more effective and comprehensive fashion. For example, for cleaning applications, our solutions are able to more effectively clean all aspects of the wafer, including the top, bottom and wafer edge using our bevel-edge cleaning capability. In addition, our closed chamber architecture is able to more efficiently retain evaporable components, thus reducing chemical consumption leading to significant cost savings. For electroplating applications, we leverage our advanced techniques in the design of our proprietary copper pellet anode assemblies and membrane technology to provide low cost copper to the flash and memory markets. Our multiple anode assemblies enable radially controlled current density during the electroplating process, leading to a more controllable process for depositing copper film on the surface of a wafer allowing the optimal match of the copper film to the planning characteristics of the downstream CMP process step. Products Our broad product suite of highly-sophisticated, innovative processing systems leverages our core wet chemical processing expertise and our years of experience in manufacturing and supporting production-proven semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Our primary wet chemical processing solutions are single-wafer and batch cleaning, stripping and etching equipment and single-wafer plating equipment, primarily for the deposition of copper, lead or lead-free solder. Surface Preparation Products Our multi-chamber, single-wafer processing systems for wet cleaning, stripping and etching are designed with a linear arrangement of the processing chambers for high volume production and, like our ECD chambers, utilize the Raider platform. The platform modularity reduces downtime and increases wafer throughput providing the customer with an overall lower cost of ownership. These systems are available to accommodate 200mm and 300mm wafer sizes. During the year, we shipped Raider SP units with our Nano-Megs technology, which allows the use of a megasonic device to clean the wafer surface without damage to the nano-sized features of the ICs. We also shipped single-wafer tools capable of providing our HydrOzone process for more cost effective cleans of the wafer surface. Selling prices for these systems range from $700,000 to $3.0 million. Our batch systems for wet cleaning, stripping and etching applications include semi- and fully-automated systems and use our proprietary spray technology to deliver the chemicals, deionized water and gases to the wafer surface in an enclosed chamber. The wafers are rotated, on axis, and showered by a sequenced spray of chemicals and heated nitrogen gas to process and dry the wafers. This technology enables precise and uniform application of process chemicals and enhances process reliability and cost effectiveness through reduced particle contamination and process cycle time. Our cost-effective ozone and deionized water-based cleaning process, called HydrOzone, is available on selected systems. This environmentally friendly process can replace traditional processes using sulfuric acid and other hazardous chemicals resulting in lower costs, reduced process cycle time, reduced water consumption, and minimize chemical waste costs. These systems are available to accommodate 150mm, 200mm and 300mm wafer sizes in up to 50 wafer batches. Selling prices for these systems range from under $15,000 to $2.7 million. 7 RAIDER SP Our Raider platform is a high-precision, multi-chamber, single-wafer platform that supports surface preparation applications. Our proprietary platform is configured in a linear design, coupled with our robotic technology, allowing for up to 12 interchangeable discrete process chambers. The Raider platform also features Nano-Megs cleaning capability, combined with the ability to use the single-wafer version of our HydrOzone or FluorOzone processes. The flexibility of its linear design makes it one of the most versatile wet cleaning, stripping and etching platforms in the industry. The tool can be equipped with our proprietary Capsule II chamber, which allows side-selectable processing. In addition, the system can also be equipped with spray, immersion, megasonic, or vapor process chambers. Applications include wafer backside, bevel-edge clean for removal of unwanted copper and other contamination, post-etch polymer removal, critical pre-deposition cleans, metal etching and Front End Of Line (FEOL) cleans. The Raider SP is available to accommodate 200mm and 300mm wafer sizes. SPECTRUM The Spectrum is an advanced automated batch processing system for cleaning, stripping and etching applications. Its compact modular design features high throughput, flexible process formats and precise control for low cost of ownership. In addition to our proprietary spray processing modules, the Spectrum can be equipped with immersion and surface tension gradient dry capabilities. It can be configured to use either corrosives, solvents or our proprietary HydrOzone-based processes for polymer removal, photoresist strip and critical cleaning applications. The Spectrum is available to accommodate both 200mm and 300mm wafer sizes. Spray Acid Tool (SAT), Spray Solvent Tool (SST), Spin Rinser/Dryer (SRD), SCEPTER The SAT and SST are manually loaded semi-automated systems for performing sequential processing of 25 wafers per spray process chamber. They are designed for wafer processing using high purity acidic, alkaline and solvent based chemistries to achieve a wide array of cleaning, stripping and etching applications. These systems can be equipped with up to three 200mm process chambers and are ideal for medium to low production volumes and research and development activity. The SRD is a high efficiency cleaning system utilizing deionized water to remove water-soluble contaminants, chemical residue and particulate matter. It is available to accommodate wafer sizes up to 300mm in diameter. The Scepter series is an advancement of these semi-automated products that offers double the productivity of the 25 wafer capacity tools by processing 50 wafers at a time in nearly the same system footprint. The Scepter can process wafer sizes up to 200mm in diameter. Electrochemical Deposition Systems Our single-wafer ECD systems incorporate proprietary electroplating technology on a multi-chamber platform that processes one wafer per chamber. ECD applications include copper interconnect for logic and memory ICs, gold bumps for high speed communication ICs, lead and lead-free solder bumps for advanced wafer level packaging and deep via plating for 3-D chip stacking applications. Our leading single-wafer design is modular, with process chambers arranged in a linear orientation, providing flexibility in system configuration. These systems generally include a combination of ECD and surface preparation process chambers to address a customer’s specific application. These systems are available to accommodate wafer diameters from 100mm to 300mm and can be scaled for customers’ capacity requirements. Selling prices of these systems typically range from approximately $700,000 to $4.7 million. RAIDER ECD The Raider ECD is an automated multi-chamber, single-wafer processor for high volume ECD. The specific configuration of its multiple processing chambers determines which semiconductor IC and advanced packaging markets the Raider ECD serves. For copper interconnect, several process steps can be integrated onto a single system such as ECD seed layer enhancement, ECD plating fill, wafer backside clean, bevel-edge clean, film thickness metrology and rapid thermal anneal. Our proprietary concentric anode chamber design, coupled with our model-based plating controller, allows the user to optimize plating profiles for downstream operations such as better matching of film characteristics to planarization (CMP) equipment, resulting in CMP improvements and reduced CMP rework loads. Our proprietary Capsule cleaning chamber, which is also used in our Raider SP, is integrated into the tool for bevel-edge and backside copper cleaning to eliminate copper contamination. The modularity of the platform provides our customers with the flexibility to configure the chamber mix to meet their specific needs. Additionally, our Advanced Chemical Management System, or ACMS, an automated electroplating bath control unit, can be fully integrated with the Raider ECD systems. The ACMS maintains the desired chemical balance in the plating baths by automatically analyzing and replenishing the chemical constituents using our proprietary technology and typically services two ECD systems. The primary applications for the Raider ECD are copper, gold, nickel, platinum and solder depositions. It is available to accommodate 200mm and 300mm wafer sizes. 8 Customers, Sales and Marketing Our customers include leading global semiconductor manufacturers. The following is a representative list of our largest customers in fiscal 2006: Advanced Micro Devices Amkor Anadigics Atmel Casio Cree Cypress Semiconductor Freescale Semiconductor Hitachi Infineon Intel Magic Technologies Micron/IM Flash/Tech National Semiconductor Nepes Qimonda Semiconductor Mfg. Intl. Corp Spansion STMicroelectronics Texas Instruments United Microelectronics Corporation Our top ten customers accounted for 54.0%, 58.2% and 56.9% of net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Advanced Micro Devices accounted for 13.8% and 16.7% of net sales in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. No customer accounted for over 10% of net sales in fiscal 2004. International sales, primarily in Europe, Asia and Japan, accounted for approximately 62.5%, 72.7 % and 51.8% of net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The relative proportion of international sales to total net sales increased in fiscal 2005 primarily due to increasing shipments of our Raider systems to Asia after declining in fiscal 2004 because initial shipments of the Raider systems, and our licensing fees, were in North America. We have direct sales and customer support organizations located in the United States, Europe, Japan, Singapore, Korea, Taiwan and China, and for some products, we utilize on a selective basis both independent representatives and distributors. We are currently expanding our direct sales and service organizations in Taiwan and China. Field service personnel and process engineers located in the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia provide warranty service, post-warranty service and equipment installation. We also provide service and maintenance training, as well as process application training for our customers’ personnel, on a fee basis. Spare parts inventories are maintained in outsourced locations throughout the world, which allows us to offer same day or overnight delivery in many instances. Backlog and Deferred Revenue Consolidated orders backlog was $85.3 million as of September 30, 2006. We include in backlog those customer orders for which we have written customer authorization and for which shipment is scheduled within the next 12 months. Orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by customers with limited or no cancellation fees. During periods of downturns in the semiconductor industry, we have experienced significant cancellations and delays. Our deferred revenue primarily relates to equipment shipped to customers that has not been accepted by the customer. Revenue on those shipments is recognized as sales when acceptance is received. As of September 30, 2006, deferred revenue was $14.4 million. As a result of systems ordered and shipped in the same quarter, possible changes in customer delivery dates, cancellations and shipment delays, and acceptances of shipped equipment carried in deferred revenue, the backlog at any particular date and the orders bookings for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of actual revenue for any succeeding period. Manufacturing Most of our manufacturing is conducted at our facilities located near Kalispell, Montana. Our manufacturing operations are selectively vertically integrated to include metals and plastics fabrication and finishing capabilities, component parts and final product assembly, and extensive product development capabilities. Manufacturing personnel work closely with product development engineers to enhance manufacturability and facilitate the transition from prototype to full-scale production. Our high-volume manufacturing lines provide responsive lead time delivery of our products. Component and product prototyping typically is performed internally, reducing the time to market for new products and product enhancements. During the year we increased our manufacturing ability with the purchase of a 72,000 square foot facility near Kalispell. This building contains our fabrication departments and provides more space for the assembly area in our main facility. We also completed our facility in Salzburg, Austria which has space for light manufacturing and a repair facility. Research and Development We believe that timely development of products is necessary to remain competitive in an equipment market characterized by rapid technological change and product innovation. We devote significant resources to programs directed at developing new and enhanced products, as well as new applications for existing products. We maintain extensive demonstration and process development laboratories at our facilities in Montana, including three lab areas for demonstrating, testing and developing products. Research and development personnel work directly with customers, vendors, and research institutes to develop new processes and to design and evaluate new equipment. 9 Research and development, which is expensed as incurred, was approximately $24.5 million, $19.7 million and $15.1 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a percentage of our net sales, these expenses represented approximately 10.1%, 10.4% and 10.8% in each of these fiscal years, respectively. Our research and development efforts were focused on the following projects which include FEOL cleaning applications, edge cleaning processes and equipment and integrated megasonic cleans. ECD R&D focused on the development of proprietary processes and power supply hardware to provide arbitrary wave form and dynamic current control for damascene plating, direct-on-barrier and thin seed layer processes, porous silicon processes and equipment and deep via applications. R&D projects also included mini-batch vacuum furnace/anneal and Thru Silicon Via (TSV) plating required for three dimensional chip stacking. During fiscal 2006, we and other semiconductor equipment companies and research institutes formed a consortium called EMC 3D, whose mission is to develop the processes and equipment needed for TSV technology. Competition The semiconductor equipment industry is an intensively competitive market place marked by constant technological change. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor equipment and related markets in which we compete include: system performance, quality and reliability, cost of using our equipment, ability to ship products to meet customer schedules, timeliness and quality of technical support service, our success in developing new and enhanced products, pricing and payment terms. We face substantial competition from established companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources, broader and integrated product lines, more extensive customer support capabilities, larger sales organizations and greater installed customer bases. Our primary competitors in ECD include Applied Materials, Inc. and Novellus Systems, Inc. In wet surface preparation applications, our competition includes Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co., FSI International, Inc., SEZ Holding, AG and Tokyo Electron, Ltd. We believe that we compete favorably with these manufacturers. We may also face competition from new market entrants. Patents and Other Intellectual Property The semiconductor industry in general is very active in pursuing patent applications for both equipment and processes used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. Patents are considered important to the protection of intellectual property resulting from a company’s research and development programs and are viewed as a means of gaining market advantages over competitors because the industry often differentiates competitors on the basis of technological criteria. We place a strong emphasis on the innovative features of our products and, where available, we generally seek patent protection for those features. We currently hold 322 U.S. patents, some with pending foreign counterparts, have approximately 193 U.S. patent applications pending and intend to file additional patent applications, as we deem appropriate. We have had an active patent program since the Company’s inception; consequently, the duration of our patent portfolio is staggered due to various initial filing dates for individual patents. Our patent portfolio is not dominated by any particular patents. We consider the strength of the overall portfolio to be more important than the strength of any particular patent. In fact, many patents are part of our “patent families” and it is difficult, if not impossible, to make any assessment regarding the “materiality” of one patent in that family over another. Even if a patent is not used offensively to prevent a competitor from practicing the same art, it may still provide a deterrent against a competitor’s potential patent infringement claim against us. Employees As of September 30, 2006, we had 1,312 full-time and temporary employees worldwide. Our employees are not represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage or strike. We consider our employee relations to be good. Environmental Matters We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous waste. Our compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, and the remedial actions we have taken with respect to environmental regulations, have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the executive officers of the Company: Name Age Position Raymon F. Thompson (1) Larry E. Murphy (2) Timothy C. Dodkin (3) Larry A. Viano (4) James L. Wright (5) 65 47 57 52 43 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Manufacturing (1) Raymon F. Thompson founded Semitool in 1979 and serves as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In 1979, Mr. Thompson designed, patented and introduced the first on-axis spin rinser/dryer for the semiconductor industry. (2) Larry E. Murphy joined us in May 2004 as our Chief Operating Officer and has served as our President since April 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Murphy worked for 15 years at Tosoh SMD, Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Tosoh Corporation headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. Mr. Murphy was Tosoh SMD’s President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as Chairman of their Taiwanese, Korean and Singapore subsidiaries. Previously at Tosoh SMD, he held several executive positions, including Chief Operating Officer, Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Global Sales Manager. (3) Timothy C. Dodkin has been employed by us since 1985 and has served on our Board of Directors since 1998. Mr. Dodkin has held a number of sales-related positions including Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing and, since June 2003, has served as Executive Vice President. Prior to joining us, Mr. Dodkin worked at Cambridge Instruments, a semiconductor equipment manufacturer, for ten years in national and international sales. (4) Larry A. Viano joined us in 1985 and has held various positions with the Company since then. Mr. Viano has served as our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since May 2003. He also serves as our Principal Accounting Officer. He is a Certified Public Accountant. (5) James L. Wright joined us in 2003 as our Director of Operations and has served as our Vice President of Manufacturing since March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright worked for eight years at Applied Materials as a Senior Operations Manager for the Copper, PVD and Systems Division. The executive officers are elected each year by the Board of Directors to serve for a one-year term of office. Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties could also cause our stock price to decline. We have incurred significant net losses in the past, our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, and we may be unable to maintain profitability. We have incurred significant net losses in the past. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain the profitability that we achieved in the past three fiscal years. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results will decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. 11 Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and will continue to vary significantly in the future, causing volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will continue to do so in the future, which will continue to cause our common stock price to fluctuate in the future. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our common stock to price and volume fluctuations include: changes in customer demand for our systems, which is influenced by economic conditions, technological developments in the semiconductor industry, and the announcement or release of enhancements to existing products or new product offerings by our competitors; demand for products that use semiconductors; market acceptance of our systems and changes in our product offerings; size and timing of orders from customers; customer cancellations or delays in orders, shipments, and installations; customer delays or rejections of final acceptance of our shipments; changes in average selling price and product mix; failure to ship an anticipated number of systems in the quarter; product development costs, including research, development, engineering and marketing expenses associated with our introduction of new products and product enhancements; sudden changes in component prices or availability; manufacturing inefficiencies caused by uneven or unpredictable order patterns, reducing our gross margins; costs associated with protecting our intellectual property; level of our fixed expenses relative to our net sales; and fluctuating costs associated with our international organization and international sales; including currency exchange rate fluctuations. During any quarter, a significant portion of our net sales may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of high priced systems. The selling prices of our systems range from under $700,000 to in excess of $4.7 million. Accordingly, a small change in the number and/or mix of tools we sell may cause significant changes in our operating results. Variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin 104 (SAB 104) “Revenue Recognition” provides guidance on the recognition of revenue for sales that involve contractual customer acceptance provisions and product installation commitments. Timing of revenue recognition from the sale of new systems, sales to new customers and installation services is subject to the length of time required to achieve customer acceptance after shipment, which could cause our operating results to vary from period to period. In light of these factors and the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, we expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results. Moreover, many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term which, together with the need for continued investment in research and development, marketing and customer support, limits our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to declines in sales. As a result, net sales could decline and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could cause our operating results to be below the public market analysts’ or investors’ expectations and the market price of our stock could decline. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry and the semiconductor equipment industry has historically led to substantial variations in demand for our products and consequently our operating results, and will continue to do so. Our operating results are subject to significant variation due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry’s business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. Our business depends upon the capital spending of semiconductor manufacturers, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products using semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and manufacturing capacity, including capacity utilizing the latest technology. The rate of changes in demand, including end-user demand, is accelerating, and the effect of these changes on us is occurring sooner, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology, and continue to affect our net sales, gross margin and results of operations. During downturns, the semiconductor equipment industry typically experiences a more pronounced percentage decrease in revenues than the semiconductor industry. A prolonged downturn can seriously affect our net sales, gross margin and results of operations. In addition, during downturns, it is critical to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to minimize the effect of such downturns on our operations, and in particular, to continue to maintain our core research and development programs. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to such downturns on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected to an even larger extent during industry downturns. 12 Conversely, during an upturn or periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we may not have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand. During an upturn we would be unable to predict the sustainability of a recovery, if any, and/or the industry’s rate of growth in such a recovery, both of which will be affected by many factors. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and production capacity during an industry upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have experienced periods of rapid growth and decline in operating levels, and if we are not able to successfully manage these significant fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We have experienced periods of significant growth and decline in net sales. Our net sales increased 27.7% from approximately $190.4 million in fiscal 2005 to approximately $243.2 million in fiscal 2006. However, there have been periods of significant declines in net sales; for example, our net sales decreased 51.8% from approximately $256.5 million for fiscal 2001 to approximately $123.7 million for fiscal 2002. In addition, our consolidated orders backlog increased 39.2% from approximately $61.3 million at September 30, 2005 to $85.3 million at September 30, 2006. If we are unable to effectively manage periods of rapid decline or sales growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly harmed. Our deferred revenue and orders backlog may not result in future net sales. Revenue recognition guidance requires that revenue and the associated profit from the sale of newly introduced systems, systems sales into new customer environments and substantive installation obligations that are subject to contractual customer acceptance provisions are deferred until the customer has acknowledged their acceptance of the system. If the system does not meet the agreed specifications and the customer refuses to accept the system, the deferred revenue and associated deferred profit will not be realized and we may be required to refund any cash payments previously received from the customer, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Order backlog does not necessarily include all sales needed to achieve net revenue expectations for a subsequent period. We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon order backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. In addition, while we evaluate each customer order to determine qualification for inclusion in backlog, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog will ultimately result in future sales. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future sales, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our continued high spending levels on research and development and the need to maintain a high level of customer service and support may, under certain circumstances, harm our results of operations. In order to remain competitive, we must maintain a high level of investment in research and development, marketing and customer service while controlling operating expenses. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development as well as a high level of worldwide customer service and support. As a result of our need to maintain spending levels in these areas, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales fall below expectations. In addition, because of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase further in the future, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow in any given period. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make a high level of investment in research and development, marketing and customer service while controlling operating expenses or that our products will continue to be viewed as competitive as a result of technological advances by competitors or changes in semiconductor processing technology. Such competitive pressures may necessitate significant price reductions by us or result in lost orders, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on our key customers with which we do not have long-term contracts. Any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by, or failure to collect receivables from these customers could harm our business. Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Sales are made pursuant to purchase orders, which can be cancelled or delayed by our customers at any time. Our customers are not required to make minimum purchases from us, or make purchases at any particular time; our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty. 13 Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 54.0%, 58.2% and 56.9% of net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There is a limited number of mostly large companies operating in the highly concentrated, capital intensive semiconductor industry. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of large companies for a significant portion of our net sales. Although the composition of the group of largest customers may change from year to year, the loss of, or a significant curtailment of purchases by, one or more of our key customers or the delay or cancellation of a large order could cause our net sales to decline significantly, which would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, delays in payments by large customers could have a significant impact on our cash flows. Intense competition in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our market share and reduce demand for our products. We face substantial competition from established competitors, some of which have: greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources; broader and integrated product lines; more extensive customer support capabilities; and larger sales organizations and customer bases. We may also face competition from new market entrants. Our ability to compete successfully in the future depends on a number of factors, including: system performance, quality and reliability; upfront price and maintenance costs of using our products; ability to ship products on time to meet customers' demands; timeliness and quality of technical support service; and our success in developing new and enhanced products. Due to intense competitive conditions in the semiconductor equipment industry, we have from time to time selectively reduced prices on our systems in order to protect our market share, and competitive pressures may necessitate further price reductions. Periodically, our competitors announce the introduction of new products or lower prices which can affect our customers’ decisions to purchase our systems, the prices we can charge for our systems and the level of discounts we grant our customers. Moreover, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These combinations may provide our competitors and potential competitors with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to more rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers are relatively large companies that require global support and service for their semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Our larger competitors have more extensive infrastructures, which could place us at a disadvantage when competing for the business of global semiconductor device manufacturers. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that will offer superior price, performance and/or cost of ownership features, or that new processes or technologies will not emerge that render our products less competitive or obsolete. As a result of the substantial investment required to evaluate and select capital equipment and integrate it into a production line, we believe that once a manufacturer has selected certain capital equipment from a particular vendor, there is a tendency for the manufacturer to rely upon that vendor to provide equipment for the specific production line application and may seek to rely upon that vendor to meet other capital equipment requirements. Accordingly, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for a protracted period of time with respect to a particular customer if that customer utilizes a competitor’s manufacturing equipment. Our Raider platform accounts for a substantial portion of current and anticipated sales. We have leveraged our Raider platform to address both surface preparation and ECD applications. In fiscal year 2006, the Raider platform accounted for approximately 70% of our tool revenues. We expect that revenue from our Raider platform will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. Accordingly, if the Raider platform was adversely affected by its own performance, price or total cost of ownership, or the availability, functionality and price of competing products and technologies, that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Rapid technological change could make our products and inventories obsolete or unmarketable for specific applications. We operate in an industry that is subject to evolving industry standards, rapid technological changes, rapid changes in customer demands and the rapid introduction of new, higher performance systems with shorter product life cycles. For example, recent trends in semiconductor manufacturing include the move towards smaller device features to lower cost and improve performance, the use of new materials, such as copper, to achieve higher speed and performance of an integrated circuit, and the migration to 300mm diameter wafers from 200mm diameter wafers to increase productivity and reduce costs. As a result of these and other trends in our industry, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development. Although, historically, we have had adequate funds from operations to devote to research and development, there can be no assurance that we will have funds available, and in sufficient quantities, in the future for such research and development activities. Introductions of new products by us or our competitors could adversely affect sales of our existing products and may cause these existing products and related inventories to become obsolete or unmarketable, or otherwise cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We may be unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis or in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves widespread market acceptance. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. These effects of rapid technological change could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventories or are required to write down our inventories due to changing market demands for our products. To achieve commercial success with our products, we need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer product and volume requirements. Some of our products and supplies, have in the past and may in the future, become obsolete, while in inventory, due to rapidly changing customer specifications or slowdowns in demand for existing products ahead of new product introductions by us or our competitors. If we are not successfully able to manage our inventory, including our spare parts inventory, we may need to write off unsaleable or obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we wrote down inventory by $19.1 million primarily due to a change in forecasted demand for certain of our products due to the introduction of our new Raider platform. Our dependence on key suppliers could delay shipments and increase our costs. Some components and subassemblies included in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. The loss of, or disruption in, shipments from these sole or limited source suppliers could, in the short-term, adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future success depends on international sales. Our net sales attributable to customers outside the United States as a percentage of our total net sales were approximately 62.5%, 72.7% and 51.8% in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect net sales outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our future net sales. Sales to customers outside the United States are subject to various risks, including: exposure to currency fluctuations and related derivatives used to hedge such fluctuations; exposure of foreign accounts to foreign exchange translations; political and economic instability, including terrorism; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; tariffs and other market barriers; potentially adverse tax consequences; outbreaks of hostilities, particularly in Israel, Korea, Taiwan or China; difficulties in managing foreign sales representatives and distributors; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign branch operations. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, if the U.S. dollar rises in value in relation to foreign currencies, our systems will become more expensive to customers outside the United States and less competitive with systems produced by competitors outside the United States. Such conditions could negatively impact our international sales. Although we endeavor to meet technical standards established by foreign standards setting organizations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with changes in foreign standards in the future. 15 Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our net sales, and thus our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, to fluctuate widely from period to period. This variation could cause our stock price to decline. Our customers generally take a long time to evaluate many of our products before committing to a purchase. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our systems. The length of time it takes us to make a sale depends upon many factors, including: the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives and distributors; the complexity of our customers' fabrication processes; the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; and capital spending by our customers. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales cycle, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from our customer, if ever, varies widely in length. Our sales cycle typically ranges from one month to two years. Occasionally our sales cycle can be even longer, particularly with our international customers and new technologies. The subsequent build cycle, or the time it takes us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order, typically ranges from one to six months. During these cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. When a customer purchases one of our systems, that customer often evaluates the performance of the system for a lengthy period before considering the purchase of more systems. The number of additional products a customer may purchase from us, if any, depends on many factors, including the customer’s capacity requirements. The period between a customer’s initial purchase and subsequent purchases, if any, often varies from two to twelve months or longer, and variations in length of this period could cause further fluctuations in our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and possibly our stock price. If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility may be harmed, sales and market acceptance of our systems may decrease and we may incur liabilities associated with those defects. Our systems are complex and sometimes have contained errors, defects and software bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or software bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems could be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or software bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to commercial and/or product liability as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to product liability indemnities. Our product and commercial liability insurance policies currently provide only limited coverage per claim. In the event of a successful product liability and/or commercial claim, we could be obligated to pay damages that may not be covered by insurance or that are significantly in excess of our insurance limits. Failure of our products to gain market acceptance would adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to provide customer service and support. We believe that our growth prospects depend upon our ability to gain customer acceptance of our products and technology. Market acceptance of products depends upon numerous factors, including compatibility with existing manufacturing processes and products, perceived advantages over competing products and the level of customer service available to support such products. Moreover, manufacturers often rely on a limited number of equipment vendors to meet their manufacturing equipment needs. As a result, market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected to the extent potential customers utilize a competitor’s manufacturing equipment. There can be no assurance that growth in sales of new products will continue or that we will be successful in obtaining broad market acceptance of our systems and technology. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new products and refine existing products. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue from the sale of any new systems. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market any new products is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle, including start up delays, design defects and other matters that could delay the introduction of these systems to the marketplace. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize sufficient sales of our systems in order to recoup research and development expenditures. The failure of any of our new products to achieve market acceptance would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 We manufacture substantially all of our equipment at two facilities and any prolonged disruption in the operations of either facility could have a material adverse effect on our net sales. We manufacture substantially all of our equipment in our manufacturing facilities located near Kalispell, Montana. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated and costly equipment and a specially designed facility. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of either of our manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage as a result of a fire or any other reason, could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. If we cannot provide timely delivery of our systems, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected to a significant extent. If we require additional capital in the future, it may not be available, or if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our cash flow from operations, and a revolving credit facility we finalized in November 2004 and amended in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future. Although we expect existing debt financing arrangements and cash flows generated from operating activities to be sufficient to fund operations at the current and projected levels in the future, there is no assurance that our operating plan will be achieved. We may need to take actions to reduce costs, seek alternative financing arrangements or pursue additional placement of our common stock. A significant contraction in the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital in the future, if and when it is required, especially if we are unable to maintain profitability. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, our shareholders may be subject to significant dilution in their ownership if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, or we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. The above mentioned revolving credit facility provides for up to $30 million in borrowings. There is no assurance that this facility will be sufficient to meet our cash needs. Compliance with environmental regulations may be very costly, and the failure to comply could result in liabilities, fines and cessation of our business. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. Current or future regulations could require us to purchase expensive equipment or to incur other substantial expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities, result in fines being imposed on us, or result in the suspension of production or cessation of our manufacturing operations. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate, our business could be harmed. We place a strong emphasis on the technically innovative features of our products and, where available, we generally seek patent protection for those features. We currently hold 322 U.S. patents, some with pending foreign counterparts, have approximately 193 U.S. patent applications pending and intend to file additional patent applications, as we deem appropriate. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any of our pending applications or that existing or future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. While we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights and non-disclosure agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology, or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Furthermore, certain types of intellectual property are country-specific; for example, U.S. patents provide protection in the U.S. but generally do not provide protection outside the U.S. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful competitive advantages to us. In any of such events, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in semiconductor-related industries. Although we are not aware of any potential infringement by our products of any patents or proprietary rights of others, further commercialization of our technology could provoke claims of infringement from third parties. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements could be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In any case, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. 17 Now and in the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could cause us to accrue substantial cost or divert our management or resources, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities and damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. In fiscal 2006, approximately 62.5% of our net sales were derived from sales in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia such as Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, China and Korea. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries, some of which are countries in which we have sold and continue to sell systems. For example, in many countries other than the U.S., the public disclosure of an invention prior to the filing of a patent application for the invention would invalidate the ability of a company to obtain a patent. Similarly, in contrast to the United States where the contents of patent applications may remain confidential during the patent prosecution process in certain cases, the contents of a patent application may be published before a patent is granted, which provides competitors an advanced view of the contents of applications prior to the establishment of patent rights. For these and other reasons, we also have not filed patent applications in these countries to the same extent that we file in the U.S. There is a risk that our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in those countries. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any unissued shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designations of such series, without further vote or action by the shareholders. We have no present plans to issue any preferred stock in order to deter a takeover and/or adopt additional anti-takeover measures. If such actions are taken in the future, they may make a change of control difficult, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Any anti-takeover provisions, including any issuance of preferred stock, could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to gain control of us. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We must attract and retain key personnel to help direct and support our future growth. Competition for such personnel in our industry can be high. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, customer support, finance and manufacturing personnel. The loss of any of these key personnel, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Raymon F. Thompson, or our President and Chief Operating Officer, Larry E. Murphy, could harm our business and operating results. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. Further, to support future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The pool of qualified applicants is limited and it can be difficult to hire and relocate personnel from other areas. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified senior executives and other employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 