Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. GENERAL RISKS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND WILL PROBABLY INCUR ADDITIONAL LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have sustained substantial losses since our inception resulting in a consolidated net accumulated deficit, as disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Acacia Research Corporation included in Part IV. Item 15 of this report. We may never become profitable, or if we do, we may never be able to sustain profitability. We expect to incur significant research and development, marketing, general and administrative and legal expenses. As a result, it is more likely than not that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. 25 IF WE, OR OUR SUBSIDIARIES, ENCOUNTER UNFORESEEN DIFFICULTIES AND CANNOT OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDING ON FAVORABLE TERMS, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. Acacia Research Corporation's consolidated cash and cash equivalents along with short-term investments totaled $59.3 million at December 31, 2006. The Acacia Technologies group’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $45.0 million at December 31, 2006. The CombiMatrix group’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $14.3 million at December 31, 2006. To date, the CombiMatrix group has relied primarily upon selling equity securities, as well as payments from strategic partners, to generate the funds needed to finance the implementation of the CombiMatrix group’s business strategies. To date, the Acacia Technologies group has relied primarily upon selling of equity securities and payments from our licensees to generate the funds needed to finance the operations of the Acacia Technologies group. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties, including the outside influences identified above, that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, our subsidiary companies may be required to obtain additional financing through bank borrowings, debt or equity financings or otherwise, which would require us to make additional investments or face a dilution of our equity interests. Any efforts to seek additional funds could be made through equity, debt or other external financings. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that additional funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed for our subsidiary companies and ourselves, we may not be able to execute our business plans and our business may suffer. Refer to “Risks related to the CombiMatrix group” below for additional information. BECAUSE WE HAVE SUSTAINED LOSSES SINCE OUR INCEPTION, WE CANNOT ASSURE THAT OUR OPERATIONS WILL BE PROFITABLE. We commenced operations in 1993 and, we have sustained substantial losses since our inception resulting in a net consolidated accumulated deficit, as disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Acacia Research Corporation included in Part IV. Item 15 of this report. If we continue to incur operating losses in future periods, we may not have enough money to expand our business and our subsidiary companies’ businesses in the future. FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR GROWTH COULD PLACE STRAINS ON OUR MANAGERIAL, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as our subsidiary companies’ businesses grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our subsidiary companies or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR ORGANIZATION TO MATCH THE GROWTH OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES. As our subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon Acacia Research Corporation will grow, and our success will depend upon our ability to meet those demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support, and general office services. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of our control. Further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. THE AVAILABILITY OF SHARES FOR SALE IN THE FUTURE COULD REDUCE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions. We may also pay for interests in additional subsidiary companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. 26 In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. DELAWARE LAW AND OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS CONTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD DISCOURAGE OR PREVENT A POTENTIAL TAKEOVER OF ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE RESULT IN OUR STOCKHOLDERS RECEIVING A PREMIUM OVER THE MARKET PRICE OF THEIR SHARES. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the following more difficult: the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: · section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; · amendment of our bylaws by the stockholders requires a two-thirds approval of the outstanding shares; · the authorization in our certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover; · provisions in our bylaws eliminating stockholders’ rights to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to wage a proxy contest for control of our board of directors or to vote to repeal any of the anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and · the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms for each class, which could make it more difficult for an outsider to gain control of our board of directors. Such potential obstacles to a takeover could adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to receive a premium price for their stock in the event another company wants to acquire us. WE MAY INCUR INCREASED COSTS AS A RESULT OF RECENTLY ENACTED AND PROPOSED CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by NASDAQ, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations. WE ARE PLANNING TO REDEEM ALL OF THE ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING SHARES OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR ALL OF THE ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING SHARES OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, AND FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION, THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP WILL CEASE TO BE A PART OF ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION. We are planning to redeem all of the issued and outstanding shares of AR-CombiMatrix stock for all of the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation pursuant to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock and AR-Acacia Technologies stock will not have an opportunity to vote on the redemption, nor will they have any right to dissent or otherwise be compensated. Following the redemption, holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock will no longer be shareholders of Acacia Research Corporation but will own all of the issued and outstanding stock of CombiMatrix Corporation. Holders of AR-Acacia Technologies stock will be the sole shareholders of Acacia research Corporation. On the redemption date, CombiMatrix Corporation will hold all of the assets of the CombiMatrix group and will thereafter operate as a separate public company with its common stock registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The price of shares of either or both companies could decline as a result of the split-off. 27 AS A RESULT OF THE REDEMPTION OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION AND COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX LIABILITY UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Our distribution of the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation in the redemption will be tax-free to Acacia Research Corporation and CombiMatrix Corporation if the distribution qualifies under Sections 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the split-off failed to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate tax would be payable by the consolidated group of which Acacia Research Corporation is the common parent based upon the difference between the aggregate fair market value of the assets of CombiMatrix Corporation’s business and the adjusted tax bases of such business to Acacia Research Corporation prior to the redemption. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acacia Research Corporation. In addition, under the Internal Revenue Code’s consolidated return regulations, each member of the Acacia Research Corporation consolidated group, including Acacia Research Corporation and CombiMatrix Corporation following the redemption, will be severally liable for these tax liabilities. If we are found liable to the IRS, the resulting obligation could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. CombiMatrix Corporation has agreed to indemnify Acacia Research Corporation for this and other tax liabilities if they result from certain actions taken by CombiMatrix Corporation or from the redemption. Acacia Research Corporation received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the redemption would be tax free to Acacia Research Corporation and the holders of AR-Acacia Technologies stock and AR-CombiMatrix stock under Sections 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, was based upon factual representations and assumptions and commitments on our behalf with respect to future operations made in the ruling request. The IRS could modify or revoke the private letter ruling retroactively if the factual representations and assumptions in the request were materially incomplete or untrue, the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts at the time of the redemption, or if we do not meet certain commitments made. If the split-off failed to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate tax would be payable by the consolidated group of which Acacia Research Corporation is the common parent based upon the difference between the aggregate fair market value of the assets of our business and the adjusted tax bases of such business to Acacia Research Corporation prior to the split-off. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acacia Research Corporation. CombiMatrix Corporation has agreed however, to indemnify Acacia Research Corporation for this and certain other tax liabilities if they result from actions taken by CombiMatrix Corporation or from the split-off. Notwithstanding CombiMatrix Corporation’s agreement to indemnify us, under the Internal Revenue Code’s consolidated return regulations, each member of the Acacia Research Corporation consolidated group, including our company, will be severally liable for these tax liabilities. If we are found liable to the IRS for these liabilities, the resulting obligation could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and we may be unable to recover on the indemnity from CombiMatrix Corporation. FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION AND COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX LIABILITY UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE FOR ACTIONS TAKEN BY EITHER OF THEM FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION. Even if the distribution qualifies under Section 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, it will be taxable to Acacia if Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code applies to the distribution. Section 355(e) will apply if 50% or more of the AR-Acacia Technologies stock or CombiMatrix Corporation’s common stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, other than the holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock who receive the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation in the redemption, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the redemption. Any shares of the AR-Acacia Technologies stock, the AR-CombiMatrix stock or the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation acquired directly or indirectly within two years before or after the redemption generally are presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. To prevent applicability of Section 355(e) or to otherwise prevent the distribution from failing to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, CombiMatrix Corporation has agreed that, until two years after the redemption, it will not take any of the following actions unless prior to taking such action, it has obtained (and provided to Acacia) a written opinion of tax counsel or a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such action will not cause the redemption to be taxable to Acacia (collectively “Disqualifying Actions”): • merge or consolidate with another corporation; • liquidate or partially liquidate; • sell or transfer all or substantially all of its assets; • redeem or repurchase its stock (except in certain limited circumstances); or • take any other action which could reasonably be expected to cause Section 355(e) to apply to the distribution. 28 Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions and may issue their stock to complete acquisitions, expand their product offerings and speed the development of new technology. Therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. In addition, substantial uncertainty exists on the scope of Section 355(e), and we have undertaken, contemplate undertaking or may otherwise undertake in the future transactions which may cause Section 355(e) to apply to the redemption. Accordingly, we cannot provide you any assurance that we will not be liable for taxes if Section 355(e) applies to the redemption. ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION AND COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION MAY BE REQUIRED TO INDEMNIFY THE OTHER FOR TAX LIABILITY RESULTING FROM THE REDEMPTION OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, WHICH MAY INTERFERE WITH BOTH COMPANIES’ ABILITY TO ENGAGE IN DESIRABLE STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS AND ISSUE THEIR EQUITY SECURITIES. If Section 355(e) applies to the distribution because of some action or omission by Acacia or by CombiMatrix Corporation after the distribution, then it must indemnify the other for any resulting tax-related liabilities. The CombiMatrix Corporation will have to indemnify Acacia if the redemption becomes taxable to Acacia by failing to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or from the application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of these or any other transactions that it undertakes after the redemption. In the event that CombiMatrix Corporation were liable for such taxes, the payment would have a substantial and material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. Further, if the redemption becomes taxable to Acacia by failing to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or from the application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of these or any other transactions that Acacia undertakes before or after the redemption, then Acacia will be liable for such taxes without recourse against CombiMatrix Corporation. This obligation may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, change of control, or other strategic or capital raising transactions involving our AR-CombiMatrix stock or CombiMatrix Corporation’s future outstanding equity or our issuance of other equity securities. If we cannot engage in equity financing transactions because of these constraints, we may not be able to fund the working capital, capital expenditure and research and development requirements, as well as to make other investments. As a result, our business may be harmed. RISKS RELATING TO THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP The risk factors beginning on this page discuss risks relating to the Acacia Technologies group. Because each holder of AR- Acacia Technologies stock is also a holder of the common stock of one company, Acacia Research Corporation, the risks associated with the CombiMatrix group could affect our AR-Acacia Technologies stock. As such, we urge you to read carefully the section “Risks Relating to the CombiMatrix Group” below. BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO MANY UNCONTROLLABLE OUTSIDE INFLUENCES, WE MAY NOT SUCCEED. Our Acacia Technologies group’s business operations are subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: · New legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase Acacia Technologies group’s operating costs and decrease its revenue. Our Acacia Technology group acquires patents with enforcement opportunities and is spending a significant amount of resources to enforce those patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. While we are not aware that any such changes are likely to occur in the foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that such changes will not occur. · Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. 29 It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. · More patent applications are filed each year resulting in longer delays in getting patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Our Acacia Technology group holds and continues to acquire pending patents. We have identified a trend of increasing patent applications each year, which we believe is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. The delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. See the subheading “Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents,” below. · Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over our actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater affect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. · Any Reductions in the funding of the United States Patent and Trademark Office could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. The assets of Acacia Technologies group consists of patent portfolios, including pending patent applications before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The value of our patent portfolios is dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could negatively impact the value of our assets. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses. · Competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents. Our Acacia Technologies group expects to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. Companies such as British Technology Group, Rembrandt Management Group, and Intellectual Ventures LLC are already in the business of acquiring the rights to patents for the purpose of enforcement, and we expect more companies to enter the market. As new technological advances occur, many of our patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If we are unable to replace obsolete technologies with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on our ability to generate future revenues. Our Acacia Technologies group also competes with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than our company. As we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue. · Our patented technologies face uncertain market value. Our Acacia Technologies group has acquired patents and technologies that are at early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. See the related risk factor below. · As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents. 30 We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our company. · The foregoing outside influences may affect other risk factors described in this annual report. Any one of the foregoing outside influences may cause our company to need additional financing to meet the challenges presented or to compensate for a loss in revenue, and we may not be able to obtain the needed financing. See the heading “If we, or our subsidiaries, encounter unforeseen difficulties and cannot obtain additional funding on favorable terms, our business may suffer” above. THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP HAS INCURRED LOSSES IN THE PAST AND EXPECTS TO INCUR ADDITIONAL LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. The Acacia Technologies group has sustained substantial losses in the past. We expect the Acacia Technologies group to incur significant legal, marketing, general and administrative expenses in future periods. As a result, we expect the Acacia Technologies group to incur losses for the foreseeable future. THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP MAY FAIL TO MEET MARKET EXPECTATIONS BECAUSE OF FLUCTUATIONS IN ITS QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. The Acacia Technologies group’s revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that in future periods the Acacia Technologies group’s revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause the Acacia Technologies group’s operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: · the performance of our third-party licensees; · costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations; · the timing of payments under the terms of any customer or license agreements into which the Acacia Technologies group may enter; and · expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other enforcement proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, as more fully described in this section. THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP’S REVENUES WILL BE UNPREDICTABLE, AND THIS MAY HARM ITS FINANCIAL CONDITION. Acacia Global Acquisition Corporation's acquisition of the assets of Global Patent Holdings, LLC in 2005, provided the Acacia Technologies group with ownership of companies that control 27 patent portfolios, which include 120 U.S. patents and certain foreign counterparts. Rights to additional patent portfolios were acquired subsequent to the acquisition of the assets of Global Patent Holdings, bringing the current total number of patent portfolios controlled by the Acacia Technologies group to approximately 62, covering technologies used in a wide variety of industries. The acquisitions expand and diversify the Acacia Technologies group's revenue generating opportunities. The Acacia Technologies group believes that its cash and cash equivalent balances, anticipated cash flow from operations and other external sources of available credit, will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through at least March 2008, and for the foreseeable future. However, due to the nature of our licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license fees from potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of our existing licensees and other factors, we cannot currently predict the amount and timing of the receipt of license fee revenues with a sufficient degree of precision. As a result, the Acacia Technologies group’s revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make its business difficult to manage and cause its quarterly results to be below market expectations. If this happens, the price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may decline significantly. 31 THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP DEPENDS UPON RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHERS TO PROVIDE TECHNOLOGY-BASED OPPORTUNITIES THAT CAN DEVELOP INTO PROFITABLE ROYALTY-BEARING LICENSES, AND IF IT IS UNABLE TO MAINTAIN AND GENERATE NEW RELATIONSHIPS, THEN IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN EXISTING LEVELS OF REVENUE OR INCREASE REVENUE. The Acacia Technologies group does not invent new technologies or products; it depends on acquiring new patents and inventions through its relationships with inventors, universities, research institutions, and others. If the Acacia Technologies group is unable to maintain those relationship and continue to grow new relationships, then it may not be able to identify new technology-based opportunities for growth and sustainable revenue. Further, because we rely upon acquiring technology from others, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the volume and quality of available new technologies necessary to sustain our current growth. If we are unable to obtain the necessary volume and quality of new technologies, then we may need to reduce operations or revise our business model. TECHNOLOGY COMPANY STOCK PRICES ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND THIS VOLATILITY MAY DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: · announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; · developments or disputes concerning our patents; · our or our competitors’ technological innovations; · developments in relationships with licensees; · variations in our quarterly operating results; · our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations of our financial results; or · a change in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations; · changes in management’s or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; and · failure to complete significant transactions. For example, the Nasdaq Computer Index had a range of $846.89 - $1,102.80 during the 52-weeks ended December 31, 2006. Over the same period, our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock fluctuated within a range of $6.65 - $15.58. We believe fluctuations in our stock price during this period could have been impacted by court rulings in our patent enforcement actions. Court rulings in patent enforcement actions are often difficult to understand, even when favorable or neutral to the value of our patents, and we believe that investors in the market may overreact, causing fluctuations in our stock prices that may not accurately reflect the impact of court rulings on our business operations and assets. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm the business and financial results of the Acacia Technologies group. 32 THE MARKETS SERVED BY THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, AND IF THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP IS UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND ACQUIRE NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PATENTS, ITS REVENUES COULD STOP GROWING OR COULD DECLINE. The markets served by the licensees of Acacia Technologies group frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. Products for communications applications, high-speed computing applications, as well as other applications covered by the Acacia Technologies group’s intellectual property, are based on continually evolving industry standards. The Acacia Technologies group’s ability to compete in the future will, however, depend on its ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. This will require our continued efforts and success of acquiring new patent portfolios with licensing and enforcement opportunities. However, we expect to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources for the foreseeable future in order to maintain the level of acquisitions we believe we need to keep pace with these technological advances. However, outside influences may cause the need for greater liquidity and capital resources than expected, as described under the caption “Because our business operations are subject to many uncontrollable outside influences, we may not succeed” above. THE SUCCESS OF OUR ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP DEPENDS IN PART UPON OUR ABILITY TO RETAIN THE BEST LEGAL COUNSEL TO REPRESENT US IN PATENT ENFORCEMENT LITIGATION. In addition, the success of the Acacia Technologies group depends upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. As our patent enforcement actions increase, it will become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents its representation of our company. THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP, IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, RELIES ON REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND OPINIONS MADE BY THIRD PARTIES, THAT IF DETERMINED TO BE FALSE OR INACCURATE, MAY EXPOSE THE ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES GROUP TO CERTAIN LIABILITIES THAT COULD BE MATERIAL. From time to time, the Acacia Technologies group may rely upon representations and warranties made by third parties from whom the Acacia Technologies group acquires patents or the exclusive rights to license and enforce patents. We also may rely upon the opinions of purported experts. In certain instances, we may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. By relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, companies that are part of the Acacia Technologies group may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights. It is difficult to predict the extent and nature of such liabilities which, in some instances, may be material. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP The risk factors beginning on this page discuss risks relating to the CombiMatrix group. Because each holder of AR- CombiMatrix stock is also a holder of the common stock of one company, Acacia Research Corporation, the risks associated with the Acacia Technologies group could affect our AR-CombiMatrix stock. As such, we urge you to read carefully the section “Risks Relating to the Acacia Technologies Group” above. OUR COMBIMATRIX GROUP WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MEET ITS CASH REQUIREMENTS BEYOND THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WITHOUT OBTAINING ADDITIONAL CAPITAL FROM EXTERNAL SOURCES, AND IF IT IS UNABLE TO DO SO, IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN OPERATIONS. As a result of our recent financings with Oppenheimer & Co. and Cornell Capital, the CombiMatrix group’s cash and cash equivalent balances, anticipated cash flows from operations and other external sources of available credit should be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through December 31, 2007. In order for the CombiMatrix group to sustain operations beyond this point, it will be required to obtain capital from external sources. If external financing sources are not available or are inadequate to fund the CombiMatrix group’s operations, it could result in reduced revenues and cash flows from the sales of our CustomArray products and services and/or could jeopardize its ability to launch, market and sell additional products and services necessary to grow and sustain its operations in order to eventually achieve profitability. As a result of the above, the audit opinion on our consolidated financial statements for the CombiMatrix group for the year ended December 31, 2006, includes a qualifying paragraph regarding the CombiMatrix group’s ability to sustain operations, as described in footnote 1 to the consolidated financial statements of the CombiMatrix group included in this report. You should review the additional information about our liquidity and capital resources in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Form 10-K. 33 THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP HAS A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND EXPECT TO INCUR ADDITIONAL LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. The CombiMatrix group has sustained substantial losses since its inception resulting in consolidated accumulated net losses as of December 31, 2005 and 2006, of $124.6 million and $144.6 million, respectively. The CombiMatrix group may never become profitable, or if it does, it may never be able to sustain profitability. We expect the CombiMatrix group to incur significant research and development, marketing, general and administrative expenses. As a result, we expect the CombiMatrix group to incur losses for the foreseeable future. The CombiMatrix group’s consolidated cash and cash equivalents along with short-term investments totaled $20.3 million and $14.3 million at December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. To date, the CombiMatrix group has relied primarily upon selling equity securities, as well as payments from strategic partners, to generate the funds needed to finance the implementation of its business strategies. We cannot assure you that the CombiMatrix group will not encounter unforeseen difficulties, including the outside influences identified above that may deplete the CombiMatrix group’s capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, the CombiMatrix group’s subsidiaries may be required to obtain additional financing through bank borrowings, debt or equity financings or otherwise, which would require the CombiMatrix group to make additional investments or face a dilution of its equity interests. Any efforts to seek additional funds could be made through equity, debt or other external financings. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that additional funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed for the CombiMatrix group, or its subsidiaries, we may not be able to execute our business plans and the business of the CombiMatrix group may suffer. THE CONTINUED DECLINE IN AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK PRICE COULD RESULT IN A GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT FOR COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION. Due to the recent decline in the AR-CombiMatrix stock, the market value of the CombiMatrix group as indicated by the trading of AR-CombiMatrix stock has approximated its book value at times during the fourth quarter of 2006, though currently exceeds its book value by approximately $10 million as of February 26, 2007. Should the AR-CombiMatrix stock continue to decline below its book value and if management concludes that the decline is other than temporary, the CombiMatrix group’s goodwill in the amount of $16.9 million as of December 31, 2006, could be impaired. WE ARE PLANNING TO REDEEM ALL OF THE ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING SHARES OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR ALL OF THE ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING SHARES OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, AND FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION, HOLDERS OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK WILL NO LONGER BE STOCKHOLDERS OF ACACIA RESEARCH CORPORATION. We are planning to redeem all of the issued and outstanding shares of AR-CombiMatrix stock for all of the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation pursuant to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock will not have an opportunity to vote on the redemption, nor will they have any right to dissent or otherwise be compensated for their shares of AR-CombiMatrix stock. Following the redemption, holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock will no longer be shareholders of Acacia Research Corporation but will own all of the issued and outstanding stock of CombiMatrix Corporation. On the redemption date, CombiMatrix Corporation will hold all of the assets of the CombiMatrix group and will thereafter operate as a separate public company with its common stock registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. FOLLOWING THE REDEMPTION OF AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK FOR THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION, HOLDERS OF THE COMMON STOCK OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING NEW RISKS: · After the separation, we will be required to raise capital on a stand-alone basis, and we will not have the benefit of Acacia’s consolidated financial strength or size to support our capital needs. A substantial portion of the CombiMatrix group’s operations are financed by Acacia’s sales of AR-CombiMatrix stock. After the separation, the CombiMatrix Corporation will be required to raise capital on a stand-alone basis. Although one of the purposes of the separation is to permit the CombiMatrix Corporation to achieve what our management believes is the most appropriate capital structure for our businesses, there can be no assurance that this will be achieved, and the risk therefore exists that the CombiMatrix Corporation may not be able to secure adequate debt or equity financing on desirable terms. If future developments in the capital markets adversely affect the biotechnology industry, the CombiMatrix Corporation will not have the benefit of Acacia’s consolidated financial strength or size to support its capital needs. 34 · Historical financial information may not be representative of the results of CombiMatrix Corporation as an independent entity, and, therefore, may not be reliable as an indicator of the CombiMatrix Corporation’s historical or future results. The historical financial information included in this report regarding the CombiMatrix group may not reflect what the results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had the CombiMatrix Corporation been an independent entity for the periods presented. Because the financial information included in this document reflects allocations for services provided to the CombiMatrix group by Acacia, these allocations may not reflect the costs the CombiMatrix Corporation would have incurred for similar or incremental services as an independent entity. In addition, the historical financial information included in this report does not reflect transactions that have occurred since December 31, 2006, or that are expected to occur in connection with the redemption. This historical financial information also may not be reliable as an indicator of future results of the CombiMatrix Corporation following the redemption. · After the redemption, the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation may fail to meet the investing guidelines of institutional investors, which may negatively affect the price of its common stock and impair its ability to raise capital through the sale of common stock. Some of the holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock are institutional investors bound by various investing guidelines. In some cases companies are selected by institutional investors based on factors such as market capitalization, industry, trading liquidity and financial condition. The separation of CombiMatrix Corporation following the redemption will reduce Acacia’s market capitalization as well as the market capitalization of the CombiMatrix group held by CombiMatrix Corporation. As a result, the common stock that the holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock will receive in the redemption may not meet the investing guidelines of some institutional investors. Consequently, these institutional investors may be required to sell the CombiMatrix Corporation common stock that they receive in the redemption or to sell the AR-CombiMatrix stock prior to the redemption date. A sufficient number of buyers may not be available in the market to absorb these potential sales. Consequently, the stock price of the AR-CombiMatrix stock or the common stock of the CombiMatrix Corporation following the redemption, may fall. Any such decline could impair our ability to raise capital for the CombiMatrix group, or CombiMatrix Corporation’s to raise capital following the redemption, through future sales of common stock. · Holders of AR-CombiMatrix Stock will incur significant tax liability if the redemption does not qualify for tax free treatment. If the redemption does not to qualify as a tax-free split-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then each owner of AR-CombiMatrix common stock that receives shares of common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation in the redemption will be treated as if such stockholder received a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the CombiMatrix common stock received on the date it is received. · CombiMatrix Corporation will apply to have its common stock traded as a new listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, and if the price of its stock does not meet the minimum requirements for stabilizing above $5.00 per share, the common stock of CombiMatrix Corporation may not be listed on Nasdaq. Although AR-CombiMatrix stock is currently traded on Nasdaq, CombiMatrix Corporation will be subject to the new listing requirements of Nasdaq or another national exchange. As a result, CombiMatrix Corporation will be submitting a new listing application for its stock to be traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. There can be no assurance that its stock will be accepted for listing on Nasdaq. Its common stock will be subject to the new listing requirements of Nasdaq that include a requirement that the stock initially trade above $5.00 per share. If the price of its common stock following the redemption does not stabilize at $5.00 or more per share, its stock may be delisted from Nasdaq. Consequently, holders of AR-CombiMatrix stock cannot be assured of continued listing of its stock on a national exchange following the redemption. If CombiMatrix Corporation’s common stock is not accepted for listing on Nasdaq, its stock will likely be traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board until it is able to meet the listing requirements of Nasdaq or another national exchange. Failure to maintain a market for its stock on Nasdaq or another national exchange will likely have a negative impact upon the trading price of its stock. 35 BECAUSE OUR COMBIMATRIX GROUP BUSINESS OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO MANY UNCONTROLLABLE OUTSIDE INFLUENCES, IT MAY NOT SUCCEED. Our CombiMatrix group's business operations are subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: · TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES MAY MAKE OUR COMBIMATRIX GROUP SEMICONDUCTOR BASED ARRAY TECHNOLOGY OBSOLETE OR LESS COMPETITIVE, AND AS A RESULT, OUR REVENUE AND THE VALUE OF OUR ASSETS COULD BECOME OBSOLETE OR LESS COMPETITIVE. Our CombiMatrix group products and services are dependent upon our semiconductor based array technology. The semiconductor based array technology is an advancement in conventional arrays that are used for the same purpose. Current array technologies have revolutionized drug discovery and development, and we believe that our CombiMatrix group's array technology provides characteristics, including flexibility, superior cost metrics, and performance, which address certain needs of the life sciences market which are not addressed by conventional arrays and offers the latest in technological advances in this area. Our products and services are substantially dependent upon our ability to offer the latest in semiconductor based array technology in the SNP genotyping, gene expression profiling and proteomic markets. We believe technological advances of conventional arrays and semiconductor based arrays are currently being developed by our existing competition and potential new competitors in the market, including Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., Applera Corporation, Becton, Dickinson and Company, Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc., Gene Logic Inc., Illumina, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Nanogen, Inc., Orchid Biosciences, Inc., Roche Diagnostics GmbH and Sequenom, Inc. We also expect to face additional competition from new market entrants and consolidation of our existing competitors. Many of the CombiMatrix group's competitors have existing strategic relationships with major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, greater commercial experience and substantially greater financial and personnel resources than we do. We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase in the future. If these companies are able to offer technological advances to conventional arrays or semiconductor based arrays, our products may become less valuable or even obsolete. While we continue to invest resources in research and development to enhance the technology of our products and services, we cannot provide any assurance that our competitors or new competitors will not enter the market with the same or similar technological advances before we are able to do so. · NEW ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION MAY MATERIALLY INCREASE THE NET LOSSES OF OUR COMBIMATRIX GROUP. The CombiMatrix group's operations involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, and as a result it is subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Any changes in these laws and regulations could increase the CombiMatrix group's compliance costs, and as a result, could materially increase the net losses of our CombiMatrix group. · OUR TECHNOLOGIES FACE UNCERTAIN MARKET VALUE. Our CombiMatrix group includes the following technologies and products that were recently introduced into the market: CustomArrayTM, DNA Microarray, 12K DNA expression array and related products, Design-on-DemandTM Arrays, and NanoArrayTM technology and our Bench-Top DNA Microarray Synthesizer for CustomArrayTM. These technologies and products have not gained widespread market acceptance, and we cannot provide any assurance that the increase, if any, in market acceptance of these technologies and products will meet or exceed our expectations. Further, our CombiMatrix group is currently developing the following technologies and products, some of which have not yet been introduced into the market: (a) microarray technology for the detection of biological threat agents, (b) molecular diagnostics drug discovery and development using the CustomArrayTM platform, and (c) additional products for the research and development and diagnostics markets including higher density arrays. The level of market acceptance of these technologies and products will have a significant impact upon our results of operations, and we cannot provide any assurance that the increase, if any, in market acceptance of these technologies and products will meet or exceed our expectations. · THE FOREGOING OUTSIDE INFLUENCES MAY AFFECT OTHER RISK FACTORS DESCRIBED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT. Any one of the foregoing outside influences may cause our company to need additional financing to meet the challenges presented or to compensate for a loss in revenue, and we may not be able to obtain the needed financing. See the heading "If we, or our subsidiaries, encounter unforeseen difficulties and cannot obtain additional funding on favorable terms, our business may suffer" above. Further, any one of the foregoing outside influences affecting the CombiMatrix group could make it less likely that our CombiMatrix group will be able to gain acceptance of its array technology by researchers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic communities. See the heading "If the CombiMatrix group's new and unproven technology is not used by researchers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic communities, its business will suffer" below. 36 THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP MAY HAVE TO ENTER INTO NEW STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS TO GENERATE REVENUE CONSISTENT WITH ITS OPERATING HISTORY OF WORKING WITH STRATEGIC PARTNERS SUCH AS ROCHE DIAGNOSTICS GmbH. In March 2004, the CombiMatrix group completed all phases of its research and development agreement with Roche Diagnostics GmbH (“Roche”). As a result of completing all of its obligations under this agreement and in accordance with the CombiMatrix group's revenue recognition policies for multiple-element arrangements, the CombiMatrix group recognized all previously deferred Roche related contract revenues totaling $17,302,000 during the first quarter of 2004. To date, the CombiMatrix group has relied primarily upon selling equity securities, as well as payments from strategic partners, to generate the funds needed to finance the implementation of the CombiMatrix group's business strategies. Prior to 2004, the CombiMatrix group had been dependent on its arrangements with Roche, and has relied upon payments by Roche and other partners for a majority of its working capital. The CombiMatrix group intends to enter into additional strategic partnerships to develop and commercialize future products. The CombiMatrix group is deploying unproven technologies and continues to develop its commercial products. There can be no assurance that the CombiMatrix group will be able to implement its future plans. Failure by management to achieve its plans would have a material adverse effect on the CombiMatrix group's and Acacia Research Corporation's ability to achieve its intended business objectives. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP MAY FAIL TO MEET MARKET EXPECTATIONS BECAUSE OF FLUCTUATIONS IN ITS QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH COULD CAUSE ITS STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. The CombiMatrix group's revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that in future periods the CombiMatrix group's revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our AR-CombiMatrix stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause the CombiMatrix group's operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: · its unpredictable revenue sources, as described below; · the nature, pricing and timing of the CombiMatrix group's and its competitors' products; · changes in the CombiMatrix group's and its competitors' research and development budgets; · expenses related to, and the CombiMatrix group's ability to comply with, governmental regulations of its products and processes; and · expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. The CombiMatrix group anticipates significant fixed expenses due in part to its need to continue to invest in product development. It may be unable to adjust its expenditures if revenues in a particular period fail to meet its expectations, which would harm its operating results for that period. As a result of these fluctuations, the CombiMatrix group believes that period-to-period comparisons of the CombiMatrix group's financial results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of its future performance. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S REVENUES WILL BE UNPREDICTABLE, AND THIS MAY HARM ITS FINANCIAL CONDITION. The amount and timing of revenues that the CombiMatrix group may realize from its business will be unpredictable because: · whether products and services are commercialized and generate revenues depends, in part, on the efforts and timing of its potential customers; and · its sales cycles may be lengthy. As a result, the CombiMatrix group's revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make its business difficult to manage and cause its quarterly results to be below market expectations. If this happens, the price of the CombiMatrix group's common stock may decline significantly. 37 TECHNOLOGY COMPANY STOCK PRICES ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND THIS VOLATILITY MAY DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR AR-COMBIMATRIX STOCK. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. In addition, our stock has historically experienced greater price fluctuations than the biotechnology index of other Nasdaq listed stock. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our AR-CombiMatrix stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, announcements of: · its or its competitors' technological innovations; · developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; · supply, manufacturing or distribution disruptions or other similar problems; · proposed laws regulating participants in the biotechnology industry; · developments in relationships with collaborative partners or customers; · its failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations of its financial results; or · a change in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If our AR-CombiMatrix stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially harm the business and financial results of the CombiMatrix group. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP IS DEPLOYING NEW AND UNPROVEN TECHNOLOGIES WHICH MAKES EVALUATION OF ITS BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS DIFFICULT, AND IT MAY BE FORCED TO CEASE OPERATIONS IF IT DOES NOT DEVELOP COMMERCIALLY SUCCESSFUL PRODUCTS. The CombiMatrix group has not proven its ability to commercialize products on a large scale. In order to successfully commercialize products on a large scale, it will have to make significant investments, including investments in research and development and testing, to demonstrate their technical benefits and cost-effectiveness. Problems frequently encountered in connection with the commercialization of products using new and unproven technologies might limit its ability to develop and commercialize its products. For example, the CombiMatrix group's products may be found to be ineffective, unreliable or otherwise unsatisfactory to potential customers. The CombiMatrix group may experience unforeseen technical complications in the processes it uses to develop, manufacture, customize or receive orders for its products. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of products the CombiMatrix group attempts to commercialize, substantially increase the anticipated cost of its products or prevent it from implementing its processes at appropriate quality and scale levels, thereby causing its business to suffer. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, AND IF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IS NOT AVAILABLE ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS, THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP MAY HAVE TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. The CombiMatrix group's future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors including how quickly it commercializes its products, the progress and scope of its collaborative and independent research and development projects, the filing, prosecution, enforcement and defense of patent claims and the need to obtain regulatory approval for certain products in the United States or elsewhere. Changes may occur that would cause the CombiMatrix group's available capital resources to be consumed significantly sooner than it expects. The CombiMatrix group may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If it fails to do so, it may have to curtail or cease operations or enter into agreements requiring it to relinquish rights to certain technologies, products or markets because it will not have the capital necessary to exploit them. 38 IF THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP DOES NOT ENTER INTO SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS WITH OTHER COMPANIES, IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FULLY DEVELOP ITS TECHNOLOGIES OR PRODUCTS, AND ITS BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED. Since the CombiMatrix group does not possess all of the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from its technologies on a mass scale, it will need either to grow its sales, marketing and support group or make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to market, sell and support its products. The CombiMatrix group believes that it will have to enter into additional strategic partnerships to develop and commercialize future products. If it does not enter into adequate agreements, or if its existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, its ability to develop and commercialize products will be impacted negatively, and its revenues will be adversely affected. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP HAS LIMITED EXPERIENCE COMMERCIALLY MANUFACTURING, MARKETING OR SELLING ANY OF ITS POTENTIAL PRODUCTS, AND UNLESS IT DEVELOPS THESE CAPABILITIES, IT MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. Even if the CombiMatrix group is able to develop its products for commercial release on a large-scale, it has limited experience in manufacturing its products in the volumes that will be necessary for it to achieve commercial sales and in marketing or selling its products to potential customers. We cannot assure you that the CombiMatrix group will be able to commercially produce its products on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP FACES INTENSE COMPETITION AND WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT IT WILL BE SUCCESSFUL COMPETING IN THE MARKET. The CombiMatrix group expects to compete with companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and function and other applications using established sequential and parallel testing technologies. The CombiMatrix group is also aware of other biotechnology companies that have or are developing testing technologies for the SNP genotyping, gene expression profiling and proteomic markets. The CombiMatrix group anticipates that it will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market with new technologies and its competitors improve their current products. The markets for the CombiMatrix group's products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and new product introductions. One or more of the CombiMatrix group's competitors may offer technology superior to those of the CombiMatrix group and render its technology obsolete or uneconomical. Many of its competitors have greater financial and personnel resources and more experience in marketing, sales and research and development than it has. Some of its competitors currently offer arrays with greater density than it does and have rights to intellectual property, such as genomic information or proprietary technology, which provides them with a competitive advantage. If the CombiMatrix group were not able to compete successfully, its business and financial condition would be materially harmed. IF THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S NEW AND UNPROVEN TECHNOLOGY IS NOT USED BY RESEARCHERS IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL, BIOTECHNOLOGY AND ACADEMIC COMMUNITIES, ITS BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. The CombiMatrix group's products may not gain market acceptance. In that event, it is unlikely that its business will succeed. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and academic research centers have historically analyzed genetic variation and function using a variety of technologies, and many of them have made significant capital investments in existing technologies. Compared to existing technologies, the CombiMatrix group's technologies are new and unproven. In order to be successful, its products must meet the commercial requirements of the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and academic communities as tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and function. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: · the development of a market for its tools for the analysis of genetic variation and function, the study of proteins and other purposes; · the benefits and cost-effectiveness of its products relative to others available in the market; · its ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; · its ability to develop and market additional products and enhancements to existing products that are responsive to the changing needs of its customers; 39 · the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies requiring capital investments or the reluctance of customers to change technologies in which they have made a significant investment; and · the willingness of customers to transmit test data and permit the CombiMatrix group to transmit test results over the Internet, which will be a necessary component of its product and services packages unless customers purchase or license its equipment for use in their own facilities. IF THE MARKET FOR ANALYSIS OF GENOMIC INFORMATION DOES NOT DEVELOP OR IF GENOMIC INFORMATION IS NOT AVAILABLE TO THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS, ITS BUSINESS WILL NOT SUCCEED. The CombiMatrix group is designing its technology primarily for applications in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and academic communities. The usefulness of the CombiMatrix group's technology depends in part upon the availability of genomic data. The CombiMatrix group is initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and function, namely gene expression profiling. These markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as the CombiMatrix group anticipates, or at all. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genomic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and function. If genomic data is not available for use by the CombiMatrix group's customers or if its target markets do not emerge in a timely manner, or at all, demand for its products will not develop as it expects, and it may never become profitable. IF THIRD-PARTY PAYORS, SUCH AS INSURANCE COMPANIES, MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS AND MEDICARE, DO NOT PROVIDE REIMBURSEMENT FOR OUR PRODUCTS, THEIR COMMERCIAL VIABILITY MAY BE LIMITED. Many of our diagnostic services are new and payors may choose not to reimburse patients for such tests. Each payor makes its own decision as to whether to establish a policy to reimburse for tests. If we are unable to garner broad payment support for our tests, we may have to ask patients to pay for tests themselves. This may reduce the use and ordering of our tests by physicians, and may limit our ability to fully realize the commercial value of our tests. OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS MAY BE HINDERED SHOULD WE BE UNABLE TO GAIN ACCESS TO PATIENTS’ TISSUE AND BLOOD SAMPLES. The development of our diagnostic products requires access to tissue and blood samples from patients who have the diseases we are addressing. Our clinical development relies on our ability to secure access to these samples, as well as information pertaining to their associated clinical outcomes. Access to samples can be difficult since it may involve multiple levels of approval, complex usage rights, privacy rights, among other issues. IF OUR CURRENT LABORATORY FACILITY BECOMES INOPERABLE OR LOSES CERTIFICATION, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO PERFORM OUR TESTS AND OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED. Our diagnostic tests are operated out of our CLIA certified laboratory in Irvine, California. Currently, we do not have a second certified laboratory. Should our only laboratory be unable to perform tests, for any reason, our business will be harmed. WE COULD FACE SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITIES IF WE WERE SUED FOR PRODUCT LIABILITY. Product liability claims could be filed, if someone were to allege that our product failed to perform as claimed. We may also be subject to liability for errors in the performance of our tests. Product liability claims could be substantial. Though we believe we carry sufficient liability insurance, defense of such a claim could be time consuming and could result in damages that are not covered by our insurance. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE CONTINUED SERVICE OF ITS ENGINEERING, TECHNICAL AND KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND ITS ABILITY TO IDENTIFY, HIRE AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL ENGINEERING, TECHNICAL AND KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the CombiMatrix group's industry, particularly for engineers and senior level management. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, engineers or other technical and key management personnel could be significantly detrimental to the group and could adversely affect its business and operating results. The CombiMatrix group may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of its products and business or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave the group in the future. The CombiMatrix group's anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on its resources and likely will require the addition of new management personnel. 40 THE EXPANSION OF THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S PRODUCT LINES MAY SUBJECT IT TO REGULATION BY THE UNITED STATES FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AND FOREIGN REGULATORY AUTHORITIES, WHICH COULD PREVENT OR DELAY ITS INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS. If the CombiMatrix group manufactures, markets or sells any products for any regulated clinical or diagnostic applications, those products will be subject to extensive governmental regulation as medical devices in the United States by the FDA and in other countries by corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory clearances and approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Products that CombiMatrix Corporation manufactures, markets or sells for research purposes only are not subject to governmental regulations as medical devices or as analyte specific reagents to aid in disease diagnosis. We believe that the CombiMatrix group's success will depend upon commercial sales of improved versions of products, certain of which cannot be marketed in the United States and other regulated markets unless and until the CombiMatrix group obtains clearance or approval from the FDA and its foreign counterparts, as the case may be. Delays or failures in receiving these approvals may limit our ability to benefit from new CombiMatrix group products. AS THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S OPERATIONS EXPAND, ITS COSTS TO COMPLY WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS WILL INCREASE, AND FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE LAWS AND REGULATIONS COULD HARM ITS FINANCIAL RESULTS. The CombiMatrix group's operations involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, and as a result it is subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. As the CombiMatrix group expands its operations, its use of hazardous substances will increase and lead to additional and more stringent requirements. The cost to comply with these and any future environmental and health and safety regulations could be substantial. In addition, the CombiMatrix group's failure to comply with laws and regulations, and any releases of hazardous substances into the environment or at its disposal sites, could expose the CombiMatrix group to substantial liability in the form of fines, penalties, remediation costs and other damages, or could lead to a curtailment or shut down of its operations. These types of events, if they occur, would adversely impact the group's financial results. THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S BUSINESS DEPENDS ON ISSUED AND PENDING PATENTS, AND THE LOSS OF ANY PATENTS OR THE GROUP'S FAILURE TO SECURE THE ISSUANCE OF PATENTS COVERING ELEMENTS OF ITS BUSINESS PROCESSES WOULD MATERIALLY HARM ITS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The CombiMatrix group's success depends on its ability to protect and exploit its intellectual property. The CombiMatrix group currently has five patents issued in the United States, three patents issued in Europe and 87 patent applications pending in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. The patents covering the CombiMatrix group's core technology begin to expire January 5, 2018. The patent application process before the United States Patent and Trademark Office and other similar agencies in other countries is initially confidential in nature. Patent Applications that are filed outside the United States, however, are published approximately eighteen months after filing. Similarly, patent applications that are filed in the United States will be published approximately eighteen months after filing unless the applicant has opted out of publication and will not file any foreign applications on the same invention. Due to the confidential nature of the patent application process, the CombiMatrix group cannot determine in a timely manner whether patent applications covering technology that competes with its technology have been filed in the United States or other foreign countries or which, if any, will ultimately issue or be granted as enforceable patents. Considering the CombiMatrix group's patent applications and those of others, some of the CombiMatrix group's patent applications may claim compositions, methods or uses that may also be claimed in patent applications filed by others. In some or all of these applications, a determination of priority of inventorship may need to be decided in a proceeding before the United States Patent and Trademark Office or a court. In contrast, in foreign jurisdictions, the first to file on the invention will generally prevail on a priority contest. If the CombiMatrix group is unsuccessful in these invention ownership proceedings, it could be blocked from further developing, commercializing or selling products that fall under the scope of the claims of the patents that issue to others. Regardless of the ultimate outcome, this ownership determination process can be time-consuming and expensive. ANY INABILITY TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGIES COULD MATERIALLY HARM THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S COMPETITIVE POSITION AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. If the CombiMatrix group does not protect its intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use its technologies and erode any competitive advantage that it may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of laws, rules and/or methods for defending intellectual property rights. 41 The patent positions of companies developing tools for the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and academic communities, including the CombiMatrix group's patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The CombiMatrix group will be able to protect its proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that its proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The CombiMatrix group's existing patents and any future issued or granted patents it obtains may not be sufficiently broad in scope to prevent others from practicing its technologies or from developing competing products. There also is a risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or designs around the CombiMatrix group's patented technologies. In addition, others may cause reexamination of the CombiMatrix group patents in the United States or may oppose the CombiMatrix group’s patents in Europe, either of which may result in narrower patent claims or cancellation of some or all of the patent claims, or invalidate the CombiMatrix group’s patents during enforcement proceedings, or the CombiMatrix group’s patents may fail to provide it with any competitive advantage. Enforcing the CombiMatrix group's intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time-consuming and ultimately may not be successful. The CombiMatrix group also relies upon trade secret protection for its confidential and proprietary information. While it has taken security measures to protect its proprietary information, these measures may not provide adequate protection for its trade secrets or other proprietary information. The CombiMatrix group seeks to protect its proprietary information by entering into confidentiality and invention disclosure and transfer agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose its proprietary information, and the CombiMatrix group may not be able to meaningfully protect its trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to its trade secrets. ANY LITIGATION TO PROTECT THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, OR ANY THIRD-PARTY CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT, COULD DIVERT SUBSTANTIAL TIME AND MONEY FROM THE COMBIMATRIX GROUP'S BUSINESS AND COULD SHUT DOWN SOME OF ITS OPERATIONS. The CombiMatrix group's commercial success depends in part on its non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Many companies developing tools for the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries use litigation aggressively as a strategy to protect and expand the scope of their intellectual property rights. Accordingly, third parties may assert that the CombiMatrix group is employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may claim that use of the CombiMatrix group's technologies infringes their current or future patents. The CombiMatrix group could incur substantial costs and the attention of its management and technical personnel could be diverted while defending ourselves against any of these claims. The CombiMatrix group may incur the same liabilities in enforcing its patents against others. The CombiMatrix group has not made any provision in its financial plans for potential intellectual property related litigation, and it may not be able to pursue litigation as aggressively as competitors with substantially greater financial resources. If parties making infringement claims against the CombiMatrix group are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which effectively could block the CombiMatrix group's ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against it. If the CombiMatrix group is unsuccessful in protecting and expanding the scope of its intellectual property rights, its competitors may be able to develop, commercialize and sell products that compete with it using similar technologies or obtain patents that could effectively block its ability to further develop, commercialize and sell its products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against the CombiMatrix group, we may be required to pay substantial damages and either discontinue those aspects of its business involving the technology upon which it infringed or obtain one or more licenses from third parties. While the CombiMatrix group may license additional technology in the future, it may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. In that event, it could encounter delays in product introductions while it attempts to develop alternative methods or products, and such attempts may not be successful. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent it from commercializing available products. A FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF COMBIMATRIX CORPORATION HAS FILED A COMPLAINT AGAINST THE COMPANY WITH THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR ALLEGING THAT HE WAS WRONGFULLY TERMINATED. A former Vice President of CombiMatrix Corporation, following his termination of employment, filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Labor alleging that his employment was terminated out of fear the former employee would report CombiMatrix Corporation’s failure to disclose certain information to be disclosed to the public. See the section titled “Legal Proceedings” on page 50 of this report. This complaint was filed following a letter to the Acacia Research Corporation board of directors containing the same allegations. Following an internal investigation in conjunction with Acacia’s outside counsel, neither Acacia’s Audit Committee nor outside counsel was able to verify any of the allegations made by the former employee. Nonetheless, in an abundance of caution, the Audit Committee engaged an independent counsel to conduct an investigation of the allegations. The independent counsel found no merit to the allegations. Management does not believe the allegations have any merit, nor does management believe the resolution of this matter will have any material effect upon the financial statements or other information included in this report. 42 BECAUSE WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY SELLING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, WE CANNOT ASSURE THAT OUR OPERATIONS WILL BE PROFITABLE. The CombiMatrix group commenced operations in 1996 and began commercialization of its CustomArray platform in 2004, and accordingly, have a limited operating history generating revenues from products and services. In addition, we are still developing our product and service offerings and you should consider the CombiMatrix group’s prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with such limited operating histories. Since the CombiMatrix group has a limited operating history, we cannot assure you that its operations will be profitable or that it will generate sufficient revenues to meet its expenditures and support its activities. The CombiMatrix group has sustained substantial losses since its inception. If the CombiMatrix group continues to incur operating losses in future periods, it may not have enough money to expand its business and its subsidiary companies’ businesses in the future. FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR GROWTH COULD PLACE STRAINS ON OUR MANAGERIAL, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our CombiMatrix group’s growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on its managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as its subsidiary companies’ businesses grow, the CombiMatrix group will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by the CombiMatrix group or its subsidiary companies or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on the CombiMatrix group’s managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit the CombiMatrix group’s ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement its business plan. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR ORGANIZATION TO MATCH THE GROWTH OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES. As the CombiMatrix group subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon its management will grow, and its success will depend upon its ability to meet those demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support for the CombiMatrix group’s board of directors, and general office services. The CombiMatrix group may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of the CombiMatrix group’s control. Further, the CombiMatrix group will need to effectively manage the training and growth of its staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and its failure to do so could adversely affect its business and operating results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE HOLDERS OF BOTH CLASSES OF OUR STOCK ARE STOCKHOLDERS OF ONE COMPANY, AND THE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF ONE GROUP COULD AFFECT THE OTHER, THUS EXPOSING THE HOLDERS OF EACH GROUP’S STOCK TO THE RISKS OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE ENTIRE COMPANY. Holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock are stockholders of a single company. The CombiMatrix group and the Acacia Technologies group are not separate legal entities. As a result, stockholders will continue to be subject to all of the risks of an investment in Acacia Research Corporation and all of our businesses, assets and liabilities. The issuance of our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock and the allocation of assets and liabilities and stockholders’ equity between the CombiMatrix group and the Acacia Technologies group did not result in a distribution or spin-off to stockholders of any of our assets or liabilities and did not affect ownership of our assets or responsibility for our liabilities or those of our subsidiaries. The assets we attribute to the Acacia Technologies group could be subject to the liabilities of the CombiMatrix group, whether such liabilities arise from lawsuits, contracts or indebtedness that we attribute to the other group. If we are unable to satisfy one group’s liabilities out of the assets we attribute to it, we may be required to satisfy those liabilities with assets we have attributed to the other group. However, our business is conducted by our operating subsidiaries. Creditors of one subsidiary may not make claims against the assets of another subsidiary, absent a separate guaranty from the other subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries currently guaranty the obligations of other subsidiaries. Financial effects from one group that affect our consolidated results of operations or financial condition could, if significant, affect the results of operations or financial condition of the other group and the market price of the common stock relating to the other group. In addition, net losses of either group and dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, either class of common stock will reduce the funds we can pay as dividends on each class of common stock under Delaware law. For these reasons, you should read our consolidated financial information with the financial information we provide for each group elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 43 THE MARKET PRICE OF EITHER CLASS OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY NOT REFLECT THE SEPARATE PERFORMANCE OF THE GROUP RELATED TO THAT CLASS OF COMMON STOCK. The market price of our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may not reflect the separate performance of the business of the group relating to that class of common stock. The market price of either class of common stock could simply reflect the performance of Acacia Research Corporation as a whole, or the market price of either class of common stock could move independently of the performance of the business of either group. Investors may discount the value of either class of common stock because it is part of a common enterprise rather than a stand-alone company. THE MARKET PRICE OF EITHER CLASS OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE AFFECTED BY FACTORS THAT DO NOT AFFECT TRADITIONAL COMMON STOCK. · The complex nature of the terms of our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may adversely affect the market price of either class of common stock. The complex nature of the terms of our two classes of common stock, such as the convertibility of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock into Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock, or vice versa, and the potential difficulties investors may have understanding these terms, may adversely affect the market price of either class of common stock. · The market price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may be adversely affected by the fact that holders have limited legal interests in the group relating to the class of common stock. For example, as described in greater detail in the subsequent risk factors, holders of either class of common stock generally do not have separate class voting rights with respect to significant matters affecting either group. In addition, upon our liquidation or dissolution, holders of either class of common stock will not have specific rights to the assets of the group relating to the class of common stock held and will not be entitled to receive proceeds that are proportional to the relative performance of that group. The voting rights of the Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock fluctuates based upon the relative market prices of the Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and the Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock. The record date for our last stockholder meeting was March 27, 2006, and holders of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock had 4.043 votes per share, and holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock had one vote per share. · The market price of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may be adversely affected by events involving the CombiMatrix group or the performance of the Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock. Events, such as earnings announcements or other developments concerning one group that the market does not view favorably and which thus adversely affect the market price of the class of common stock relating to that group, may adversely affect the market price of the class of common stock relating to the other group. Because both classes of common stock are common stock of Acacia Research Corporation, an adverse market reaction to one class of common stock may, by association, cause an adverse reaction to the other class of common stock. This reaction may occur even if the triggering event was not material to us as a whole. THE HOLDERS OF ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK AND THE HOLDERS OF ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK HAVE ONLY LIMITED SEPARATE STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS. Holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock have the rights customarily held by common stockholders. They also have these specific rights related to their corresponding group: · certain rights with regard to dividends and liquidation; · requirements for a mandatory dividend, redemption or conversion upon the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of their corresponding group; 44 · a right to vote on matters as a separate voting class in the limited circumstances provided under Delaware law, by stock exchange rules or as determined by our board of directors (such as an amendment of our certificate of incorporation that changes the rights, privileges or preferences of the class of stock held by such stockholders); and · we will not hold separate stockholder meetings for holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock. THE HOLDERS OF ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK AND THE HOLDERS OF ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK WILL HAVE CERTAIN LIMITS ON THEIR RESPECTIVE VOTING POWERS. · Group common stock with a majority of voting power can control voting outcomes. The holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock will vote together as a single class, except in limited circumstances. If a separate vote on a matter by the holders of either our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock is not required under Delaware law or by stock exchange rules, and if our board of directors does not require a separate vote, either class of common stock that is entitled to more than the number of votes required to approve such matter could control the outcome of such vote - even if the matter involves a divergence or conflict of the interests between the holders of our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock . In addition, if the holders of common stock having a majority of the voting power of all shares of common stock outstanding approve a merger, the terms of which did not require separate class voting under stock exchange rules, then the merger could be consummated - even if the holders of a majority of either class of common stock were to vote against the merger. The last time we determined the floating voting power of our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock was at our last annual meeting on May 16, 2006, and our record date for voting purposes was March 27, 2006. As of March 27, 2006, 27,766,909 shares of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock were issued and outstanding. As of March 27, 2006, 38,992,402 shares of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock were issued and outstanding. For purposes of the annual meeting, each holder of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock had 4.043 votes per share, and each holder of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock had one vote per share. Collectively, holders of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock had a total of 112,261,613 potential votes, or approximately 74% of the total available votes. As the number of issued and outstanding shares of each class of stock increases, and as the market price of each class of stock fluctuates, the relative voting power between the classes of stock could change significantly. · Group common stock with less than majority voting power can block action if a class vote is required. If Delaware law, stock exchange rules or our board of directors requires a separate vote on a matter by the holders of either our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock, such as a proposal to amend the terms of one class of stock, those holders could prevent approval of the matter, even if the holders of a majority of the total number of votes cast or entitled to be cast, voting together as a class, were to vote in favor of it. · Holders of only one class of common stock cannot ensure that their voting power will be sufficient to protect their interests. Since the relative voting power per share of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock will fluctuate based on the market values of the two classes of common stock, the relative voting power of a class of common stock could decrease. As a result, holders of shares of only one of the two classes of common stock cannot ensure that their voting power will be sufficient to protect their interests. OUR RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION MAY BE AMENDED TO INCREASE OR DECREASE THE AUTHORIZED SHARES OF EITHER CLASS OF COMMON STOCK WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF EACH CLASS VOTING SEPARATELY. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that an amendment to our restated certificate to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of either class of common stock will require the approval of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of common stock, voting together as a single class, and will not require the approval of each class of stock voting as a separate class. Accordingly, if the holders of one class of common stock hold a majority of the voting power of all shares of common stock, then that majority could approve an amendment to our restated certificate to increase or decrease the authorized shares of stock of either class without the approval of the holders of the minority class of stock. 45 STOCKHOLDERS MAY NOT HAVE ANY REMEDIES FOR BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTIES IF ANY ACTION BY OUR DIRECTORS OR OFFICERS HAS A DISADVANTAGEOUS EFFECT ON EITHER CLASS OF COMMON STOCK. Stockholders may not have any remedies if any action or decision of our directors and officers has a disadvantageous effect on either class of common stock compared to the other class of common stock. We are not aware of any legal precedent under Delaware law involving the fiduciary duties of directors and officers of corporations having two classes of common stock, or separate classes or series of capital stock, the rights of which, like our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock, are defined by reference to separate businesses of the corporation. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of two classes of capital stock or two groups of holders of the same class of capital stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders regardless of class or series. Under these principles of Delaware law and the related principle known as the “business judgment rule,” absent abuse of discretion, a good faith business decision made by a disinterested and adequately informed board of directors, board of directors’ committee or officer with respect to any matter having different effects on holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and holders of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock would be a defense to any challenge to such determination made by or on behalf of the holders of either class of common stock. NUMEROUS POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS EXIST BETWEEN OUR ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK AND OUR ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK WHICH MAY BE DIFFICULT TO RESOLVE BY OUR BOARD OR WHICH MAY BE RESOLVED ADVERSELY TO ONE OF THE CLASSES. The existence of separate classes of common stock could give rise to occasions when the interests of the holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock diverge or conflict. Examples include determinations by our directors or officers to: · pay or omit the payment of dividends on Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock ; · allocate consideration to be received by holders of each of the classes of common stock in connection with a merger or consolidation involving Acacia Research Corporation; · convert one class of common stock into shares of the other; · approve certain dispositions of the assets of either group; · allocate the proceeds of future issuances of our stock either to the Acacia Technologies group or the CombiMatrix group; · allocate corporate opportunities between the groups; · make other operational and financial decisions with respect to one group that could be considered detrimental to the other group; and · Acacia Technology group may seek to license and enforce its patented technologies against companies that have business relationships or potential business relationships with CombiMatrix group. When making decisions with regard to matters that create potential diverging or conflicting interests, our directors and officers will act in accordance with their fiduciary duties, the terms of our restated certificate of incorporation, and, to the extent applicable, our management and allocation policies. THE PERFORMANCE OF ONE GROUP OR THE DIVIDENDS PAID TO ONE GROUP MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE DIVIDENDS AVAILABLE FOR THE OTHER GROUP. Our board of directors currently has no intention to pay dividends on our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock. Determinations as to future dividends on our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock will be based primarily on the financial condition, results of operations and business requirements of the relevant group and Acacia Research Corporation as a whole. Subject to the limitations referred to below, our board of directors has the authority to declare and pay dividends on our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock in any amount and could, in its sole discretion, declare and pay dividends exclusively on our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock, exclusively on our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock, or on both, in equal or unequal amounts. Our board of directors will not be required to consider the amount of dividends previously declared on each class, the respective voting or liquidation rights of each class or any other factor. 46 The performance of one group may cause our board of directors to pay more or less dividends on the common stock relating to the other group than if that other group was a stand-alone company. In addition, Delaware law and our restated certificate of incorporation impose limitations on the amount of dividends which may be paid on each class of common stock. PROCEEDS OF MERGERS OR CONSOLIDATIONS MAY BE ALLOCATED UNFAVORABLY. Our restated certificate of incorporation does not contain any provisions governing how consideration to be received by holders of common stock in connection with a merger or consolidation involving Acacia Research Corporation is to be allocated among holders of each class of common stock. Our board of directors will determine the percentage of the consideration to be allocated to holders of each class of common stock in any such transaction. Such percentage may be materially more or less than that which might have been allocated to such holders had our board of directors chosen a different method of allocation. HOLDERS OF EITHER CLASS OF COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A CONVERSION OF GROUP COMMON STOCK. Our board of directors could, in its sole discretion and without stockholder approval, determine to convert shares of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock into shares of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock, or vice versa, at a time when either or both classes of common stock may be considered to be overvalued or undervalued. Any such conversion would dilute the interests in Acacia Research Corporation of the holders of the class of common stock being issued in the conversion. It could also give holders of shares of the class of common stock converted a greater or lesser premium than any premium that might be paid by a third-party buyer of all or substantially all of the assets of the group whose stock is converted. HOLDERS OF EITHER CLASS OF COMMON STOCK COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A DISPOSITION OF THE ASSETS ATTRIBUTED TO THEIR RESPECTIVE GROUPS. Our board of directors could, in its sole discretion and without stockholder approval, determine to dispose of all or substantially all the assets of a group. If a disposition of group assets occurs at a time when those assets are considered undervalued, then holders of that group’s stock would receive less consideration than they could have received had the assets been disposed of at a time when they had a higher value. PROCEEDS OF FUTURE ISSUANCES OF OUR STOCK COULD BE ATTRIBUTED UNFAVORABLY. We may in the future issue a new class of stock, such as a class of preferred stock, or additional shares of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock. Proceeds from any future issuance of any class of stock would be attributed among the CombiMatrix group or the Acacia Technologies group as determined by our board of directors. There is no requirement that the proceeds from an issuance of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock be attributed to the corresponding group. Such allocations might be materially more or less for the respective groups than what might have been attributed had our board of directors chosen a different allocation method. Also, any designated preferred class may be designed to reflect the performance of Acacia Research Corporation as a whole, rather than the performance of the CombiMatrix group or the Acacia Technologies group. ALLOCATION OF CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES COULD FAVOR ONE GROUP OVER ANOTHER. Our board of directors may be required to allocate corporate opportunities between the groups. In some cases, our directors could determine that a corporate opportunity, such as a business that we are acquiring, should be shared by the groups. Any such decisions could favor one group at the expense of the other. OTHER OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DECISIONS WHICH MAY FAVOR ONE GROUP OVER THE OTHER. Our board of directors or our senior officers will review other operational and financial matters affecting the CombiMatrix group and the Acacia Technologies group, including the allocation of financing resources and capital, technology and know-how and corporate overhead, taxes, debt, interest and other matters. Any decision of our board of directors or our senior officers in these matters could favor one group at the expense of the other. 47 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MAY CHANGE OUR MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION POLICIES WITHOUT STOCKHOLDER APPROVAL TO THE DETRIMENT OF EITHER GROUP. Our board of directors may modify or rescind our policies with respect to the allocation of corporate overhead, taxes, debt, interest and other matters, or may adopt additional policies, in its sole discretion without stockholder approval. A decision to modify or rescind these policies, or adopt additional policies could have different effects on holders of either class of common stock or could result in a benefit or detriment to one class of stockholders compared to the other class. Our board of directors will make any such decision in accordance with its good faith business judgment that the decision is in the best interests of Acacia Research Corporation and all of our stockholders as a whole. EITHER GROUP MAY FINANCE THE OTHER GROUP ON TERMS UNFAVORABLE TO ONE OF THE GROUPS. We may transfer cash and other property between groups to finance their business activities. The group providing the financing will be subject to the risks relating to the group receiving the financing. We will account for those transfers generally as a short-term or long-term loan between groups or as a repayment of a previous borrowing. THERE ARE LIMITS ON THE CONSIDERATION WHICH MAY BE RECEIVED BY THE STOCKHOLDERS IN THE EVENT OF THE DISPOSITION OF ASSETS OF A GROUP. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that if a disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of either group occurs, we must, subject to certain exceptions: · distribute through a dividend or redemption to holders of the class of common stock relating to such group an amount equal to the net proceeds of such disposition; or · convert at a 10% premium such common stock into shares of the class of common stock relating to the other group. If the group subject to the disposition were a separate, independent company and its shares were acquired by another person, certain costs of that disposition, including corporate level taxes, might not be payable in connection with that acquisition. As a result, stockholders of the separate, independent company might receive a greater amount than the net proceeds that would be received by holders of the class of common stock relating to that group if the assets of such group were sold. In addition, we cannot assure you that the net proceeds per share of the common stock relating to that group will be equal to or more than the market value per share of such common stock prior to or after announcement of a disposition. The term “substantially all of the properties and assets” of a group is subject to potentially conflicting interpretations. Resolution of such a dispute could adversely impact the holders of either the class of common stock related to the assets being disposed or the holders of the other class because the consideration, if any, to be received by the holders of the class related to the disposed assets may depend on whether the disposition involved “substantially all” of the properties and assets of that class. HOLDERS OF EITHER CLASS OF COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A REDEMPTION OF THEIR COMMON STOCK. We are entitled to redeem the outstanding common stock relating to a group when all or substantially all of that group’s assets are sold. We can redeem the assets for cash, securities, a combination of cash and securities or other property at fair value. A disposition-related redemption could occur when the assets being disposed of are considered undervalued. If that were the case, the holders of our common stock related to that group would receive less consideration for their shares than they may deem reasonable. We can also redeem on a pro rata basis all of the outstanding shares of a group’s common stock for shares of the common stock of one or more of our wholly owned subsidiaries. If this were to occur, the holders of the redeemed class of common stock would no longer have stockholder voting rights in Acacia Research Corporation or any other benefits to be derived from holding a class of stock in Acacia Research Corporation. In addition, if the outstanding shares of a class of our common stock are redeemed for shares that are not publicly traded, the holders of such redeemed stock will no longer be able to publicly trade their shares and accordingly their investment will be substantially less liquid. 48 OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND THE VARIABLE VOTE PER SHARE COULD ENABLE A POTENTIAL ACQUIRER TO TAKE CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY THROUGH THE ACQUISITION OF ONLY ONE OF THE CLASSES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. A potential acquirer could acquire control of Acacia Research Corporation by acquiring shares of common stock having a majority of the voting power of all shares of common stock outstanding. Such a majority could be obtained by acquiring a sufficient number of shares of both classes of common stock or, if one class of common stock has a majority of such voting power, only shares of that class. Currently, our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock has a majority of the voting power. As a result, currently, it might be possible for an acquirer to obtain control of Acacia Research Corporation by purchasing only shares of Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock. DECISIONS BY DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS THAT AFFECT DIFFERENTLY ONE CLASS OF OUR COMMON STOCK COMPARED TO THE OTHER COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET VALUE OF EITHER OR BOTH OF THE CLASSES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The relative voting power per share of our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock and the number of shares of one class of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the other class of common stock will vary depending upon the relative market values of our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock. The market value of either or both classes of common stock could be affected by market reaction to decisions by our board of directors or our management that investors perceive to affect differently one class of common stock compared to the other. These decisions could involve changes to our management and allocation policies, allocations of corporate opportunities and financing resources between groups, and changes in dividend policies. INVESTORS MAY NOT VALUE OUR ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK AND OUR ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK BASED ON GROUP FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND POLICIES. We cannot assure you that investors will value our Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and our Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock based on the reported financial results and prospects of the separate groups or the dividend policies established by our board of directors with respect to those groups. Holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock will continue to be common stockholders of Acacia Research Corporation subject to all the risks associated with an investment in Acacia Research Corporation as a whole. Additionally, the separate stockholder rights related to each group are limited and relate to events that may never occur, such as dividend and liquidation rights and the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of a group. Accordingly, investors may discount the value of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock because both groups are part of a common enterprise rather than a stand-alone entity and each class of stock has limited separate stockholder rights. HOLDERS OF ACACIA RESEARCH-COMBIMATRIX COMMON STOCK AND ACACIA RESEARCH-ACACIA TECHNOLOGIES COMMON STOCK MAY NOT RECEIVE A PREMIUM FROM AN INVESTOR ACQUIRING CONTROL OF THEIR RESPECTIVE CLASSES OF STOCK. Control of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock or Acacia Research-Acacia Technologies common stock may not provide control of Acacia Research Corporation as a whole. Accordingly, unlike many acquisition transactions, holders of Acacia Research-CombiMatrix common stock and AR-Technologies stock may not receive a controlling interest premium from an investor acquiring control of their respective classes of stock. THERE ARE CERTAIN PROVISIONS IN OUR TWO-CLASS CAPITAL STRUCTURE THAT COULD HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. The existence of the two classes of common stock could, under certain circumstances, prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change in control of Acacia Research Corporation by delaying or preventing such change in control. The existence of two classes of common stock could present complexities and could, in certain circumstances, pose obstacles, financial and otherwise, to an acquiring person. We could, in the sole discretion of our board of directors and without stockholder approval, exercise the right to convert the shares of one class of common stock into shares of the other at a 10% premium over their respective average market values. This conversion could result in additional dilution to persons seeking control of Acacia Research Corporation. 49 Our board of directors could issue shares of preferred stock or common stock that could be used to create voting or other impediments to discourage persons seeking to gain control of Acacia Research Corporation, and preferred stock could also be privately placed with purchasers favorable to our board of directors in opposing such action. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None Item 