Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Common Stock of BKFC is subject to certain risks inherent in the business of BKFC and the Bank. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect BKFC and the Bank are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing BKFC or the Bank. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the business operations of BKFC or the Bank. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, or if any combination of the following risks occur, the financial condition and results of operations of BKFC or the Bank could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of Common Stock could decline significantly. References to “we,” “us,” and “our” in this “Risk Factors” section refer to BKFC and its subsidiaries, including the Bank, unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires. Our business depends upon the general economic conditions of the northern Kentucky and greater Cincinnati, Ohio area, and may continue to be adversely affected by downturns in the local economies in which we operate. Our business operations are limited almost exclusively to the northern Kentucky and the greater Cincinnati, Ohio area, which is a small geographic area. As such, our business is closely tied to the general economic conditions of this area. Local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services, as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Bank’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions could increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank’s products and services, or decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loans are secured by real estate and concentrated in the northern Kentucky and greater Cincinnati area, which may adversely affect our earnings and capital if real estate values decline. Nearly 80% of our total loans are real estate interests (residential, nonresidential including both owner occupied and investment real estate, and construction and land development) concentrated in the northern Kentucky area and neighboring areas in greater Cincinnati, Ohio, a small geographic area. As a result, declining real estate values in the northern Kentucky and greater Cincinnati, Ohio markets as a result of the ongoing national economic recession could negatively impact the value of the real estate collateral securing such loans. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values in satisfaction of any non-performing or defaulted loans, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to intense competition in our market area, and our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively. BKFC and the Bank compete with national financial institutions, as well as numerous state chartered banking institutions of comparable or larger size and resources, smaller community banking organizations and a variety of nonbank competitors. The Bank competes for deposits with other commercial banks, savings associations and credit unions and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. In making loans, the Bank competes with other banks, savings associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, leasing companies and other lenders. Many of the institutions against whom we compete are national and regional banks that are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources and the ability to achieve economies of scale by offering a broader range of products and services at more competitive prices than we can offer. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our ability to compete successfully and to maintain and grow our profitability depends upon a number of factors, including: the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top-quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; the ability to continue to expand BKFC’s market position through organic growth and strategic acquisitions; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which BKFC introduces new products and services relative to our competitors; and industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our nonresidential real estate loans expose us to greater risks of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans, which may cause us to increase our allowance for loan losses which would reduce our net income. At December 31, 2010, $482 million, or 44%, of our loan portfolio consisted of nonresidential real estate loans. Nonresidential real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by collateral that may depreciate over time. These loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Because such loans generally entail greater risk than residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans, which would reduce our net income. Also, many of our nonresidential real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. We may require access to the capital and credit markets to conduct our business operations, and the unprecedented levels of volatility that have impacted such capital and credit markets could impair our access to the same. From 2008 through 2010, the capital and credit markets have experienced extended volatility and disruption. In the third quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, BKFC’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. BKFC’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain our ability to make new loans, to meet our existing lending commitments and, ultimately, jeopardize our overall liquidity and capitalization. In response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets and the potential threats to the solvency of investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. government has taken unprecedented actions. These actions include the government assisted acquisition of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase, the federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the plan of the Treasury Department to inject capital and to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets or particular financial institutions. Investors should not assume that these governmental actions will necessarily benefit the financial markets in general, or BKFC in particular. BKFC could also be adversely impacted if one or more of its direct competitors are beneficiaries of selective governmental interventions (such as FDIC-assisted transactions) and BKFC does not receive comparable assistance. Further, investors should not assume that the government will continue to intervene in the 27 Table of Contents financial markets at all. Investors should be aware that governmental intervention (or the lack thereof) could materially and adversely affect BKFC’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Further decline in general economic conditions could require further additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce our net income. If our borrowers do not repay their loans or if the collateral securing their loans is insufficient to provide for the full repayment, we may suffer credit losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses. If we determine that our allowance for loan losses is insufficient, we would be required to take additional provisions for loan losses, which would reduce net income during the period those provisions are taken. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to charge off particular loans. Current economic conditions and their impact upon the northern Kentucky and greater Cincinnati, Ohio markets where our business is concentrated have caused us to continue to increase our allowance for loan losses during 2010. If current economic trends decline, we may experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses, resulting in further increases to our provisions for loan losses in the future and reduced net income. Our accounting policies and estimates are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and any changes to such accounting policies and estimates could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Accounting policies and estimates are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management makes judgments and assumptions in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates so that such policies and estimates comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure that these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, these policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, actual outcomes may be materially different from amounts previously estimated. For example, because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates, management cannot provide any assurance that the Bank will not significantly increase its allowance for loan losses if actual losses are more than the amount reserved. Any increase in its allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior financial statements. See “Allowance for Loan Losses” under “Item 1. Business” and “Critical Accounting Policies” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion regarding these critical accounting policies. Further, from time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. The ongoing economic recession has resulted in increased scrutiny of accounting standards by legislators and our regulators, particularly as they relate to fair value accounting principles. In addition, ongoing efforts to achieve convergence between GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards may result in changes to GAAP. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. Our largest source of revenue (net interest income) is subject to interest rate risk. The Bank’s financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Bank’s earnings depend primarily upon its net interest income, which is the difference between its interest income earned on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and its interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities, consisting of deposits and borrowings. Moreover, the loans included in our interest-earning assets are primarily comprised of variable and adjustable rate loans. Net interest income is subject to interest rate risk in the following ways: 28 Table of Contents • In general, for a given change in interest rates, the amount of change in value (positive or negative) is larger for assets and liabilities with longer remaining maturities. The shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields, funding costs and investment income differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as payment behavior changes in response to changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates decline sharply, loans may pre-pay, or pay down, faster than anticipated, thus reducing future cash flows and interest income. Conversely, if interest rates increase, depositors may cash in their certificates of deposit prior to maturity (notwithstanding any applicable early withdrawal penalties) or otherwise reduce their deposits to pursue higher yielding investment alternatives. • Re-pricing frequencies and maturity profiles for assets and liabilities may occur at different times. For example, in a falling rate environment, if assets re-price faster than liabilities, there will be an initial decline in earnings. Moreover, if assets and liabilities re-price at the same time, they may not be by the same increment. For instance, if the Federal Funds Rate increased 50 basis points, rates on demand deposits may rise by 10 basis points; whereas rates on prime-based loans will instantly rise 50 basis points. Financial instruments do not respond in a parallel fashion to rising or falling interest rates. This causes asymmetry in the magnitude of changes to net interest income, net economic value and investment income resulting from the hypothetical increases and decreases in interest rates. Therefore, BKFC’s management monitors interest rate risk and adjusts BKFC’s funding strategies to mitigate adverse effects of interest rate shifts on BKFC’s balance sheet. The Bank’s asset and liability management strategies designed to maintain a reasonable degree of interest rate sensitivity are more fully described in “Asset/Liability Management” under “Item 1. Business” and “Asset/Liability Management and Market Risk” under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk”. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may significantly affect BKFC’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. There have been numerous actions undertaken in Congress, the Treasury Department, the FRB, the FDIC, the SEC and others in an effort to address the recent liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown, which began in late 2007. These measures include the TARP CPP (under which the Treasury Department’s authority to make new investments expired on October 3, 2010); homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; a mandatory “stress test” requirement for banking institutions with assets in excess of $100 billion to analyze capital sufficiency and risk exposure; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. However, the EESA, the ARRA and any current or future legislative or regulatory initiatives may not have their desired effect, or may have an adverse effect when applied to BKFC. The most recent of these actions was the passage into law on July 21, 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. Many of these provisions are subject to further study, rulemaking and to the discretion of regulatory bodies. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions that are significantly larger than BKFC or the Bank, there are provisions with which we will have to comply now that the Dodd-Frank Act has become law. For instance, we will be subject to a new assessment model from the FDIC based on assets, not deposits, and be subject to enhanced executive compensation and corporate governance requirements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, our ability to count trust preferred securities in our Tier 1 regulatory capital also will be constrained. Because most aspects of this legislation will be subject to intensive agency rulemaking, including public comment periods prior to implementation over the next six to 18 months and beyond, it is difficult to predict at this time the complete extent of the effects that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us. As rules and regulations are promulgated by the federal agencies responsible for implementing and enforcing the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, we will have to work to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions, which may adversely impact our earnings. Furthermore, any current or future legislative or regulatory initiatives may not have their desired effect, or may have an adverse effect when applied to us. 29 Table of Contents Failure to meet any of the various capital adequacy guidelines which we are subject to could adversely affect our operations and could compromise the status of BKFC as a bank holding company. BKFC and the Bank are required to meet certain regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements imposed by the FRB, the FDIC and the Department. If BKFC or the Bank fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and could compromise the status of BKFC as a banking holding company. See “Regulatory Capital Requirements” under “Item 1. Business” for detailed capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks. Non-compliance with applicable laws and/or regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and USA Patriot Act, may adversely affect BKFC’s operations and financial results and could result in significant fines or sanctions. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on the Bank if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, that we have violated laws or regulations with which we must comply, or that weaknesses or failures exist with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include, among other things, orders to take certain actions or to refrain from certain actions. The imposition of regulatory sanctions may have adverse effects on BKFC, including a material impact on its financial condition. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from operations, cause significant expenses, restrict BKFC from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit BKFC’s ability to raise capital. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent the institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If certain activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts or conduct transactions, and require the filing of certain reports, such as those for cash transactions above a certain threshold. Financial institutions must also refrain from transacting business with certain countries or persons designated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Non-compliance with laws and regulations such as these could result in significant fines or sanctions. These particular laws and regulations have significant implications for all financial institutions, establish new crimes and penalties, and require the federal banking agencies, in reviewing merger and acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties to such transactions in combating money laundering and terrorist activities. Even inadvertent non-compliance and technical failure to follow the regulations may result in significant fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on BKFC’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Bank could be held responsible for environmental liabilities relating to properties acquired through foreclosure, resulting in significant financial loss. In the event the Bank forecloses on a defaulted commercial or residential mortgage loan to recover its investment, it may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the underlying real property, which could significantly exceed the value of the real property. Although the Bank exercises due diligence to discover potential environmental liabilities prior to acquiring any property through foreclosure, hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants, or their sources may be discovered on properties during its ownership or after a sale to a third party. BKFC cannot assure you that the Bank would not incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of any removal and cleanup on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and cleanup would not exceed the value of the property, or that the Bank could recover any of the costs from any third party. Losses arising from environmental liabilities could have a material adverse impact on BKFC’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. BKFC is subject to liquidity risk, which could disrupt our ability to meet our financial obligations. Liquidity refers to the ability of BKFC to ensure sufficient levels of cash to fund operations, such as meeting deposit withdrawals, funding loan commitments, paying expenses and meeting quarterly payment obligations under certain subordinated debentures issued by BKFC in connection with the issuance of floating rate redeemable trust preferred securities issued by BKFC’s unconsolidated trust subsidiary. The source of the funds for BKFC’s debt obligations is dependent on the Bank. If needed, the Bank has the ability to borrow term and overnight funds from the FHLB or other financial intermediaries. The Bank also has $245 million of securities designated as available-for-sale that can serve as sources of funds. In addition, in February 2009 BKFC issued $34 million of Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury 30 Table of Contents Department as part of the CPP, of which only $17 million remains outstanding after giving effect to the December 22, 2010 repayment, resulting in additional cash available to support the Bank’s capital position. While management is satisfied that BKFC’s liquidity is sufficient at December 31, 2010 to meet known and potential obligations, any significant restriction or disruption of BKFC’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could have a negative effect on BKFC’s ability to satisfy its current and future financial obligations, which could materially affect BKFC’s financial condition. BKFC is a bank holding company, and its sources of funds are limited. BKFC is a bank holding company and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to shareholders of BKFC is derived primarily from dividends paid by the Bank. As a result, BKFC’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Under federal law, the payment of dividends by the Bank is subject to capital adequacy requirements. The FRB and/or the FDIC prohibit a dividend payment by BKFC or the Bank that would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. See “Dividend Restrictions” under “Item 1. Business”. The inability of the Bank to generate profits and pay such dividends to BKFC, or regulator restrictions on the payment of such dividends to BKFC even if earned, would have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of BKFC and BKFC’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. In addition, since BKFC is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank, its right to participate in the distribution of assets of the Bank upon the Bank’s liquidation, reorganization or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s creditors, which will generally take priority over the Bank’s shareholders. Our Common Stock price can be volatile. Our Common Stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, making it more difficult for you to resell your Common Stock at prices you find attractive and at the time you want. Factors include actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in recommendations or projections by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies deemed to be peers; news reports and perception in the marketplace regarding BKFC, our competitors and/or the financial services industry as a whole; results of litigation; significant acquisitions or business combinations involving BKFC or our competitors; and other factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section. For example, the existence of the Warrant issued to the Treasury Department to purchase up to 274,784 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $18.56 per share and the potential for dilution or actual dilution the Warrant may cause, as described in detail below, may create volatility in the market price of BKFC’s Common Stock. In addition, our Common Stock also has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a person’s ability to quickly accumulate or quickly divest themselves of large blocks of our Common Stock. Further, a low average trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. Recent or future acquisitions by BKFC may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. BKFC regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or financial institutions. In 2007, we acquired FNB Bancorporation. In 2009, we acquired certain banking offices and assumed certain deposit liabilities of Integra Bank, as well as adding the investment professionals of TAM to the Bank’s trust department. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company such as those described above or other businesses we acquire in the future may cause BKFC not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits. The integration could result in higher than expected customer deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of BKFC’s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect BKFC’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Some provisions contained in BKFC’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and under Kentucky law could deter a takeover attempt or delay changes in control or management of BKFC. 31 Table of Contents Certain provisions of BKFC’s articles of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult to acquire control of BKFC by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy fight or otherwise. For example, the articles require the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding voting power of BKFC or, if the Board of Directors recommends against the approval of certain matters, by the holders of at least 75% of the voting power to, among other things, adopt (i) an amendment to the articles or bylaws, (ii) an agreement of merger or consolidation, (iii) a proposed combination or majority share acquisition involving the issuance of shares of BKFC and requiring shareholder approval, and (iv) a proposal to sell, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose of all, or substantially all, of BKFC’s assets. Additionally, certain provisions of the Kentucky Business Corporation Act that apply to BKFC limit the ability of certain shareholders to engage in business combinations with the company in which they own shares. Such provisions of the articles, bylaws and Kentucky law may have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of BKFC. The Treasury Department’s investment in BKFC imposes restrictions and obligations limiting BKFC’s ability to increase dividends, repurchase Common Stock or preferred stock and access the equity capital markets. Unless BKFC has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury Department as part of the CPP, or unless the Treasury Department has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury Department will be required for BKFC to, among other things, increase Common Stock dividends or effect repurchases of Common Stock (with certain exceptions). BKFC has also granted registration rights to the Treasury Department pursuant to which BKFC has agreed to lock-up periods prior to and following the effective date of an underwritten offering of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Warrant or the underlying Common Stock held by the Treasury Department, during such time when BKFC would be unable to issue equity securities. The Treasury Department’s investment in BKFC may dilute earnings, encumber earnings to pay preferred dividends and require BKFC to accrue the related discount through earnings. Full exercise of the Warrant issued to the Treasury Department as part of the CPP will dilute BKFC’s common shareholders by approximately 3.70%, based upon the approximately 7,432,295 shares of BKFC’s Common Stock issued and outstanding as of March 1, 2010. Should the market value of BKFC’s Common Stock increase above the exercise price of $18.56 per common share prior to the exercise of the Warrant, accounting rules will require additional shares to be included in the fully diluted share count, and will effectively reduce reported diluted earnings per share to common shareholders. If the Warrant is exercised, dividends would become payable with respect to the newly issued shares. Likewise, in a scenario in which BKFC’s management might prefer to repurchase the Warrant, if the market price of the Common Stock is significantly above the exercise price of the Warrant, the value of the Warrant would rise with the market price of the Common Stock. In such a scenario, a higher amount of cash would be needed to repurchase the Warrant, reducing capital surplus. Furthermore, a scenario involving early redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury Department will require the acceleration of the associated discount through earnings available for common shareholders. If not redeemed by February 15, 2014, the annual dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock will increase from 5.00% per annum to 9.00% per annum. If BKFC is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at or prior to February 15, 2014, then this higher dividend rate may be financially unattractive to BKFC relative to the cost of capital under the market conditions prevailing after that date. In addition, BKFC is required by accounting rules to accrete the deemed discount on the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury Department through earnings available to common shareholders. The remaining discount will accrete through February 15, 2012 at an amount of approximately $183,000 annually, reducing earnings available to common shareholders. If the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed early by BKFC, accretion of the remaining discount will be accelerated through earnings available to common shareholders at that time. Any future FDIC premiums or special assessments will adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. BKFC recorded an expense of $601,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our FDIC general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. 32 Table of Contents On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted regulations that require insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The new regulations base the assessment rate for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 and for 2010 on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 on the modified third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under the prepaid assessment rule, we were required to make a payment of approximately $6.7 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009, and to record the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. In addition, the FDIC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to amend its regulations to base deposit insurance assessments on an insured depository institution’s average consolidated total assets minus its average tangible equity, rather than on its deposit base. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 