ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report or other public statements we may make. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. However, many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or foresee, and undue reliance should not be put on forward-looking statements. Risk and other forward-looking factors may or may not ultimately be found correct. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in future periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 10-K or other forms we file with the SEC. The United States and global economic slowdown and ongoing disruptions in the financial markets could have a significant adverse impact on consumer and corporate spending and our business in ways that we cannot currently predict. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact our operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. The recent combination of severely tightened credit markets, stringent and costly borrowing conditions, deterioration of residential real estate and mortgage markets, unprecedented stock market declines and fluctuating oil and commodity prices, among other factors, have led to historically low levels of consumer confidence and recessionary conditions. The direction and strength of the United States economy, including the financial and credit markets, currently is uncertain due to these factors. Many of these conditions and uncertainties also exist in varying degrees throughout the global markets. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents Many factors related to discretionary consumer spending can adversely impact recreational and entertainment spending and significantly impact our operating results. Consumer disposable income and spending are affected by economic conditions such as employment rates, high or rising fuel prices, difficult consumer credit and housing markets, interest and tax rates and inflation. Many factors affect corporate spending such as general economic and other business conditions, including consumer spending, high or rising fuel prices, interest and tax rates, hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorist attacks, military actions and inflation, as well as various industry and other business conditions, including corporate marketing and promotional spending and interest levels. Such factors or incidents, even if not directly impacting us, could disrupt or otherwise adversely impact our customers, markets and consumer spending in general. Also, recent or future governmental actions may control, influence or otherwise restrict corporate spending or spending trends. These factors can impact regional and national consumer and corporate spending sentiment, and adversely affect attendance at our events, suite rentals, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales and driving schools and other track rentals. These factors also can affect the financial results of present and potential sponsors and other customers of our facilities and events and of the industry. Negative factors such as challenging economic conditions, governmental actions that impact spending, public concerns over additional national security incidents and air travel, particularly when combined, can impact corporate and individual customer spending and each negative factor can have varying effects on our operating results. All of the aforementioned factors, among others, can have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. Government responses and actions may or may not successfully restore stability to the credit and consumer markets and improve economic conditions in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that government response to the economic slowdown and disruptions in the financial and credit markets will stabilize the economy or financial and credit markets for long periods. Record state and federal budgetary deficits could result in government responses such as higher consumer and corporate income or other tax rates. Governmental spending deficits could lead to higher interest rates and continued difficult borrowing conditions for consumers and corporate customers. These economic conditions might not improve or could worsen and when these conditions may ultimately improve cannot be determined at this time. These severe economic conditions and governmental actions have and may further adversely impact various industries of our consumer and corporate customers, resulting in spending declines that could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be further adversely impacted by current or unforeseen economic conditions, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Except as described in Item 7 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, we currently have no direct holdings in these higher-risk type instruments and our indirect exposure to these instruments through money market funds or otherwise is immaterial. However, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our current or future investment portfolios, if any, will remain unimpaired. Also, the financial stability of certain insurance companies that provide our insurance coverage could be adversely affected. In that case, the ability of these insurance companies to pay our potential claims could be impaired, and we might not be able to obtain adequate replacement insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. Any of these events could harm our business, and we cannot provide assurance that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties in obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our future financial position or operating results. Bad weather adversely affects the profitability of our motorsports events and postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us. We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, driving schools and track rentals, among other things. Although we sell tickets well in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly because we promote a limited number of premier events. Due to inclement weather conditions, we may be required to move a race event to the next raceable day, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact our walk-up admissions, if any, and food, beverage and souvenir sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods because consumer demand can be affected by the success of past events. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is postponed because of weather, national security, natural disasters or other reasons, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased rev - - Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 16 Table of Contents enues from admissions, food, beverage and souvenir sales generated at the rescheduled event. If such an event is cancelled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing the revenues associated with the event, including live broadcast revenues, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup or Nationwide Series, the amount of money we receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation could be reduced. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues in excess of amounts scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the cancelled event. Lack of competitiveness in NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races or closeness of championship points races, the popularity of race car drivers or changes made by NASCAR on conducting, promoting and racing as a series sanctioning body, can significantly impact operating results. A lack of competitiveness in Sprint Cup Series races or the closeness of the championship points race in any particular racing season can significantly impact our operating results. These and other factors, such as the popularity of race car drivers, can affect attendance, media attention and the promotional marketing appeal for Sprint Cup racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such Sprint Cup races are promoted. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues will not be adversely impacted by a lack of competitive racing or a close championship points race, or a decline in popularity of one or more race car drivers, in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. NASCAR periodically implements new rules or technical and other required changes for race teams and drivers, as well as event promoters, in attempts to increase safety, racing competition and fan interest, among other things. For example, NASCAR introduced a new prototype car for the Sprint Cup Series, the “Car of Tomorrow,” and is introducing a new redesigned car for the Nationwide Series, in efforts to increase competition on the speedways and generate increased fan interest and new marketing opportunities. These and other new cars, and other periodically implemented changes, may or may not become more successful or popular with fans. Such factors can affect attendance and other event related revenues for our Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such races are promoted. Rule changes can increase operating costs that we may or may not be able to control. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues or operating costs will not be adversely impacted by sanctioning body changes in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations. We pursue acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. We purchased NHMS in January 2008 for $340.0 million and Kentucky in December 2008 for $70.8 million. These purchases were funded with available cash and borrowings under the Credit Facility. The purchase of NHMS and Kentucky and other such transactions may involve significant challenges and risks. For example, the transactions may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investments made; we may experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems and technology; or management’s attention may be diverted from our other businesses or operations. Furthermore, the use of cash or additional borrowings could significantly impact our liquidity, impair our ability to borrow additional funds for other business purposes or cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts, among other things. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or operating results. We may expand and improve the NHMS and Kentucky facilities, which may involve material capital expenditures over several years in amounts or nature that have not yet been determined. Such expenditures may or may not increase our future success and the ability to compete and operate successfully and profitably depends on many factors outside of management’s control. Such factors, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could result in possible impairment and other charges that materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. Management may from time to time evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. For example, in 2007 we sold the majority of assets and all operations of North Carolina Speedway, consisting principally of track rentals, because advancement of our business strategy and the foreseeable returns on investment were not satisfactory. Furthermore, in 2008 we decided to discontinue our oil and gas operations as further discussed Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may decide to spend, depending on perceived possibilities, or be required to spend certain additional amounts or take legal action to protect or preserve our oil and gas investment interests and maintain or maximize potential recovery values, if any. Such additional expenditures, although presently undeterminable, could become material depending on the facts, circumstances and ultimate outcome of any attempted recovery or resolution. Those costs, if significant and ultimately not recovered, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than optimal. In addition, there is a risk that we will sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Failure to be awarded a NASCAR event or deterioration in our relationship with NASCAR could adversely affect our profitability. Our success has been and will remain dependent to a significant extent upon maintaining a good working relationship with the organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR, the sanctioning body for Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck Series races. Each NASCAR event is awarded on an annual basis. Although we believe our relationship with NASCAR is good, nonrenewal of a NASCAR event license would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to obtain NASCAR licenses to sponsor races at our facilities. Our strategy has included growth through the addition of motorsports facilities. Failure to obtain NASCAR events for any future additional motorsports facility could have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or favorably. Kentucky presently annually hosts one NASCAR Nationwide, one NASCAR Camping World Truck, one IndyCar Series and other racing events, and does not currently host a NASCAR Sprint Cup Series race. We have requested realignment of a Sprint Cup Series race to Kentucky at the earliest possible time. We are unable to predict if or when this realignment will occur. Until a Sprint Cup Series race is held at Kentucky, we are likely to incur cash and non-cash operating losses that negatively impact our future financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us. NASCAR has announced it would consider potential track realignment of Sprint Cup Series racing events to desirable, potentially more profitable market venues of speedway operators. While relocation of any Sprint Cup event among our speedways we now or may own in the future could result in a net increase in our future operating profitability, long-lived assets of a speedway from where a Sprint Cup racing event may move could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Increased costs associated with, and inability to obtain, adequate insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Heightened concerns and challenges regarding property, casualty, liability, business interruption and other insurance coverage have resulted from the national incidents such as September 11, 2001 and natural disasters such as Hurricane Katrina. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our eight speedway facilities, which are generally located near highly populated cities and which hold motorsports events typically attended by large numbers of fans. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits. We cannot assure you that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurred or major motorsports events were cancelled and liability for personal injuries and product liability claims could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. While management attempts to obtain, and believes it presently has, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance currently in force, including coverage for acts of terrorism, would be adequate should one or multiple catastrophic events occur at or near any of our speedway facilities, or Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 18 Table of Contents one or more of our major motorsports events were cancelled, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Once our present coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our speedway facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if our asset damage or liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. The occurrence of additional national incidents, in particular incidents at sporting events, entertainment or other public venues, may significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and to spectators. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to protect us from material financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our premises in the ordinary course of business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. We may incur significant costs from partial self-insurance. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedways and other properties and motorsports events and other business risks. We may increase the marketing of certain products using self-insured promotional warranty programs that could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number and amount of claims significantly increase. We have increased and may further increase our self-insurance limits, which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number of incidents, damages, casualties or other claims below such self-insured limits increase. Management cannot guarantee that the number of uninsured losses will not increase. An increase in the number of uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations. Strong competition in the motorsports industry and with other professional and amateur sports could hinder our ability to maintain or improve our position in the industry. Motorsports promotion is a competitive industry. We compete in regional and national markets, and with ISC and other NASCAR related speedways, to promote events, especially NASCAR-sanctioned Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series events, and to a lesser extent, with other speedway owners to promote other NASCAR, IRL, NHRA and WOO sanctioned events. We believe our principal competitors are other motorsports promoters of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series or equivalent events. Certain of our competitors have resources that exceed ours. NASCAR is owned by the France family, who also controls ISC. ISC presently hosts a significant number of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series races. Our competitors may attempt to build speedways and conduct racing and other motorsports related activities in new markets that may compete with us and our local and regional fan base or marketing opportunities. We also compete for spectator interest with all forms of professional and amateur spring, summer and fall sports, such as football, baseball, basketball and hockey, conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Las Vegas, Dallas-Fort Worth and San Francisco, and regionally and nationally, many of which have resources that exceed ours, and with a wide range of other available entertainment and recreational activities. These competing events and activities may be held on the same days or weekends as our events. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or improve our position in light of such competition. The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth. Our success depends to a great extent upon the availability and performance of our senior management. Their experience within the industry, especially their working relationship with NASCAR, continues to be of considerable importance to us. The loss of any of our key personnel due to illness, retirement or otherwise, or our inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plans. Our Credit Facility permits significant expenditures for capital projects, investments in and transactions for motorsports and other ancillary businesses, and costs associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability. We believe significant growth in our revenues depends, in large part, on consistent investment in facilities. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital improvements in our facilities to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase spectator entertainment value and to increase revenue. As of December 31, 2009, our Credit Facility allows standby letters of credit of Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents up to $75.0 million, capital expenditures of up to $80.0 million, and provides for additional borrowings of up to $229.1 million, subject to meeting specified conditions. We frequently have a number of significant capital projects underway. As further described above in the risk factor “The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations,” we plan to continue to make substantial capital expenditures and investments, including significant renovations and improvements to Kentucky and other capital expenditures involving NHMS and other speedway facilities, in 2010 and future years. The planned improvements will likely involve material capital expenditures over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments resulting in lower investment interest or earnings, reduce our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, lower our ratings by credit agencies, result in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, result in higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Commencement of construction is subject to governmental approval and permitting processes, which could materially affect the ultimate cost and timing of construction. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various capital improvements at our facilities, including: • undetected soil or land conditions • additional land acquisition costs • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor • unforeseen changes in design • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site • national or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if those factors or our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Should projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to the inability to obtain necessary permits or other unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Also, should improvement projects not produce a sufficiently high economic yield, including those requiring demolition of a component of a speedway facility, capitalization of demolition, construction and historical component costs limited to the revised estimated value of the project, capitalized expenditures could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Future impairment of our property and equipment, other intangible assets and goodwill could adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we have net property and equipment of $1,179.1 million, net other intangible assets of $395.0 million and goodwill of $181.0 million. Also, as further described in the risk factor above “The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations,” we plan to continue to make substantial capital investments. We periodically evaluate long-lived assets for possible impairment based on expected future undiscounted operating cash flows and profitability attributable to such assets or when indications of possible impairment occur. Management’s latest annual assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the second quarter 2009 indicated there had been no impairment, and except for certain network and other media promotional contracts as further described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, there has since been no other events or circumstances that might indicate possible impairment as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, our market capitalization was below its consolidated stockholder’s equity. Management’s analysis of the difference, along with additional information on the latest annual impairment assessment, is described in Note 2, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” to Consolidated Financial Statements and is not repeated here. Based on this analysis, management believes the decline in our market capitalization below its consolidated stockholder’s equity is temporary, and that goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired through and as of December 31, 2009. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 20 Table of Contents The evaluation is subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation. While we believe no unrecognized impairment exists at December 31, 2009, different conditions, trends or assumptions or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluation and our future financial condition or results of operations. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, and if significantly negative or unfavorable, could become impaired and materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. See the risk factor “Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us” above for related discussion on impairment considerations. Our equity investment in an associated entity could adversely affect our profitability. As further described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Joint Venture Equity Investment”, our carrying value of our MA equity investment was reduced to $0 at December 31, 2009. This reduction reflects our 50% share of MA’s sizable 2009 and 2007 impairment charges and historical operating results, and our other than temporary impairment charge for MA. Additional information on our and MA’s impairment analysis is described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial statements and is not repeated here. These impairment evaluations are subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation. Different conditions or assumptions, or changes in cash flows or profitability, could have a material effect on the outcome of these impairment evaluations. MA is facing significant operating challenges and is in technical default of certain of its license agreements that are material to the viability of the business, which raises substantial doubt about MA’s ability to continue as a going concern. Also, MA is in non-compliance with one affirmative covenant under MA’s credit and security agreement. However, as of March 12, 2010, we have been informed that MA’s lender has not taken restrictive action with regards to this technical default and has allowed MA to continue to operate under the credit and security agreement while monitoring their situation. As of March 12, 2010, there were no borrowings under MA’s credit and security agreement. MA is attempting to renegotiate its license agreements with essentially all present significant licensors of NASCAR merchandising on terms that allow MA reasonable future opportunities to operate profitably. Should such negotiations not be successful, should MA management decide to allow license defaults to remain uncured or should licensors not grant extended cure periods and exercise their rights under the agreements, MA’s business and its ability to continue operating could be severely impacted. There can be no assurance that these licensors will agree to revise contracted license terms, or continue to grant MA licensing rights, on acceptable terms. MA is exploring other business strategies to turn its business around. MA continues to restructure its business by implementing process improvements, cost reduction initiatives, improved inventory risk management, and streamlining operations. If such efforts are not sufficient or timely, MA could ultimately pursue bankruptcy. MA’s future profits or losses, and ability to generate sufficient financial resources, could be affected by or depend on future demand, trends, and other market conditions and factors such as (i) economic conditions and consumer and corporate spending sentiment and trends, including prolonged recessionary conditions, (ii) the success of motorsports, the popularity of its licensed drivers and teams, and the magnitude and timing of its licensed driver and team changes, particularly for NASCAR’s Sprint Cup Series, (iii) increased competition for products sold under non-exclusive MA licenses, expanded licensing by licensors to competitors selling products similar to those under non-exclusive MA licenses, and nonrenewal of exclusive or non-exclusive MA licenses upon expiration, (iv) deterioration in customer relationships and (v) the success of MA management in achieving sustained profitability. Many of these operating factors are outside management’s control. Under equity method accounting, we will no longer record our 50% share of future MA operating losses, if any, unless and until this carrying value is increased from additional Company investments in MA or to the extent of future MA operating profits, if any. As of December 31, 2009, we a had contingent guarantee obligation associated with MA that is limited to $11.5 million, decreases annually, and expires through 2015 based on specified terms and conditions. Should MA have insufficient future financial resources and such obligation remains due, we could be required to fund part or all of the guarantee up to the obligation amount determined at that time. Although reasonably possible that some obligation could arise in the future, the amount, if any, is not reasonably estimable at this time. As such, management believes no obligation should be recorded at this time. We could increase our investment in MA, in the form of additional equity contributions or loans, in amounts that could be material. We Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents could be required to record an impairment charge for any future carrying value of this equity investment under equity method accounting, including any additional Company investments, and for our contingent guarantee obligation, if funding was required. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position, ability to meet our obligations under our debt instruments, and ability to pay dividends. We have a substantial amount of debt and significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $672.4 million, or $681.0 million excluding issuance discount of $8.6 million, as further described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our substantial indebtedness and leverage could make it more difficult and costly for us to borrow money in the future and may reduce the amount of funds available to finance our operations and other business activities and may have other important consequences, including the following: • we will have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, debt redemption premium, if any, and interest on our debt, which will reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other corporate purposes; • our ability to adjust to adverse or changing market conditions and withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be vulnerable to additional risk if there is a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; • we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less leverage and greater operating and financial flexibility than we do; • increase our interest costs or increase the risks that we may not be able to obtain additional financing or obtain financing at acceptable rates; • increase our difficulties in refinancing or replacing our outstanding obligations such as the scheduled maturities of our Credit Facility in July 2012 and Senior Subordinated Notes in May 2013; and • cause lowered ratings by credit agencies, resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts. Each or all of the factors could have a material adverse affect our financial health and profitability. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness and is therefore not available for use in our business. In 2009, we paid $45.2 million in interest on our indebtedness, and our interest costs in 2010 could increase. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, legislative, regulatory, industry, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our operations are substantially impacted by the success of NASCAR in the promotion and conduct of racing as a sanctioning body, our relationship with NASCAR and the popularity of NASCAR and other motorsports generally, and the impact of competition, including competition from other speedway owners like ISC. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may redeem some or all of the Senior Subordinated Notes or 2009 Senior Notes at any time at annually declining redemption premiums ranging from 102.25% of par in fiscal years beginning June 1, 2009 to par after June 1, 2011, and 104.375% of par in fiscal years beginning June 1, 2013 to par after June 1, 2015, respectively, which could limit funds otherwise available for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. However, we may not be able to complete such refinancing or redemption on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain. Our future borrowing costs on current outstanding or future indebtedness could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 22 Table of Contents The purchases of NHMS and Kentucky significantly increased our outstanding indebtedness and leverage, and our current or future capital spending plans could further significantly increase our future outstanding debt, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial health and profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $672.4 million and the Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $229.1 million. The ongoing disruptions in the financial and capital markets, including severely tightened credit markets, and stringent and costly borrowing conditions, could have a significant adverse impact on our future interest and other borrowing costs. Our operating results have benefited from relatively low interest rates on our floating rate Credit Facility and future increases, if significant, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results. Also, our future interest and borrowing costs under our Credit Facility, any refinanced or replaced current outstanding indebtedness, or new additional financing could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability. Interest and other borrowing costs have significantly increased for many companies in numerous industries, and may increase from current levels in the foreseeable future. While, at times, we use interest rate swaps to hedge our interest rate risk, we are currently unable to predict if or when the interest rates could change. Also, we are unable to predict if or when the currently tight credit markets may improve. Our significant indebtedness levels and leverage, along with difficult credit market conditions, could result in higher interest and other borrowing costs and more restrictive financial and other loan covenants under any new credit facility or other borrowing arrangements. As further discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, interest rates under our Credit Facility are based on specified tier levels that are adjustable periodically based upon certain ratios of funded debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). Our current planned or unplanned future capital spending and possible increases in our future outstanding indebtedness, along with our current leverage, could further reduce the amounts by which we exceed minimum required covenant compliance levels and result in changes to our interest cost tier levels under the Credit Facility. Future changes in such surplus in our compliance levels or interest cost tiers could result in increased interest costs on current or future indebtedness, restricted or reduced borrowings and availability under the Credit Facility, and increased costs of borrowing for any new financing. Each or all of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and profitability. Restrictions imposed by terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing. The indentures for our 2009 Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes and the Credit Facility agreement restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to do any of the following: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions; • incur liens; • make specified types of investments; • apply net proceeds from certain asset sales; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate; • pay dividends or make other payments from subsidiaries; • sell equity interests of subsidiaries; • sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of assets; and • incur indebtedness that is subordinate in right of payment to any senior indebtedness and senior in right of payment to the 2009 Senior Notes or the Senior Subordinated Notes. Because of the significance of our outstanding indebtedness, debt covenant compliance is important to our operations. Our Credit Facility is the primary source of committed funding from which we finance our planned capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, such as repurchases of our common stock, and working capital needs. Our Credit Facility contains more extensive and restrictive covenants than the indentures for the 2009 Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes. In addition to covenants of the type described above, the Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, as well as limits our acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments, as further described in “Future Liquidity. The Company regularly monitors compliance with the various covenants under each of these debt agreements. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Future Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 23 Table of Contents default on any of these covenants could result in default under, or an inability to undertake certain activities in compliance with, the underlying debt agreements. Non-compliance with financial covenant ratios or other covenants could prevent us from being able to access further borrowings under, or require repayment of, our Credit Facility. Our ability to meet those covenants, financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. The Credit Facility, the 2009 Senior Notes, and the Senior Subordinated Notes indentures contain cross-default provisions. A default under any of these debt agreements could likely trigger cross-default provisions allowing the lenders, in each case, to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements. If there were an event of default under any loan agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral, if any, granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we could repay or refinance the accelerated amounts due. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Should we pursue further development and/or acquisition opportunities, the timing, size and success as well as associated potential capital commitments of which are unknown at this time, we may need to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financings. There can be no assurance that adequate debt and equity financing will be available, if and when needed, on satisfactory terms or will be permitted under the covenants of the Credit Facility, 2009 Senior Notes or Senior Subordinated Notes. Failure to obtain further financing could have a negative effect on our business and operations. Management believes the Company was in compliance with all applicable covenants under the Credit Facility, 2009 Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes as of December 31, 2009. At this time, management also believes the Company will remain in compliance with all applicable covenants for at least the next 12 months. However, although not anticipated at this time, significant negative adverse factors such as material tangible, intangible or other asset impairment charges or unforeseen declines in our future profitability or cash flows from ongoing recessionary conditions or other market factors, if large enough individually or in combination, could result in our inability to remain in compliance. These and other possible negative factors that could impact compliance are further described throughout this “Risk Factors” section. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be permitted to incur additional debt in the future. In addition, we may be able to secure this additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $229.1 million of additional revolving loans available for borrowing under the Credit Facility. The indenture governing the 2009 Senior Notes permits us to refinance our Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013, which are subordinated in right of payment to the 2009 Senior Notes, with senior indebtedness that would rank pari passu in right of payment to the 2009 Senior Notes, at any time. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify. Furthermore, any additional financing arrangements we enter into may contain additional restrictive and financial covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit many actions, including, but not limited to, our ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, make prepayments of particular debt, pay dividends, make capital expenditures or investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets and engage in mergers and consolidations or in sale-leaseback transactions. Failure to maintain compliance with any new covenants could constitute a default, which could accelerate the payment of any amounts outstanding under any new or existing financial agreements. Government regulation of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us. The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry is generally subject to greater governmental regulation than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 24 Table of Contents of our sponsorship contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. The alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry has provided substantial financial support to the motorsports industry through, among other things, the purchase of advertising time, the sponsorship of racing teams and the past sponsorship of racing series such as the Busch (now Nationwide) Series, and generally are subject to greater governmental regulation than are other sponsors of our events. We are unaware of any proposed additional governmental regulation that would materially limit the availability to motorsports of promotion, sponsorship or advertising revenue from the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry. We cannot assure you that the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry will continue to sponsor motorsports events, suitable alternative sponsors could be located or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events sponsored by the alcoholic beverage industry at any of our facilities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverage products could adversely affect us. Our chairman owns a majority of our common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of March 1, 2010, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, 29,000,800 shares of our common stock. As a result, he will continue to control the outcome of substantially all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors. In addition, as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules, we also qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors. Although we qualify, we do not currently use this “controlled company” exemption. Our oil and gas business incurs financial and operational risks different from those of our other operations. As further described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the fourth quarter 2008, we decided to discontinue our oil and gas operations primarily because of ongoing challenges and business risks in conducting these activities in foreign countries, particularly Russia. Based on an impairment assessment, the estimated fair values of our consolidated foreign investments in oil and gas operations were found substantially diminished and written off as of December 31, 2008 through an impairment charge included in our 2008 loss from discontinued operation. These oil and gas operations have involved business, credit and other risks different from our motorsports operations and the ability to invest and compete successfully and profitably has been subject to many factors outside management’s control. Many of the operating risks and challenges have involved difficult or restrictive governmental situations when attempting to conduct business, access or transfer assets or funds, or facilitate production and similar activities in Russia and other foreign countries. For each of these investment interests, we may decide to spend, depending on perceived possibilities, or be required to spend certain additional amounts or take legal action to protect or preserve our interest to maintain or maximize the potential recovery value and to protect other aspects of our oil and gas investments. Such additional expenditures, although presently undeterminable, could become material depending on the facts, circumstances and ultimate outcome of any attempted recovery or resolution. Those costs, if significant and ultimately not recovered, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of discontinued operations or cash flows. There are many risks generally associated with oil and gas related activities, including environmental, commodities and similar risks common to such activities. Our discontinued oil and gas business has included exploration and production activities that have been less successful than previously anticipated. These investments involve a variety of operating risks, including: • fires, explosions, blow-outs, surface cratering and casing collapse; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and formation water; • natural disasters, such as earthquakes, and adverse weather conditions; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and pipeline ruptures. Realization of receivables, investments and other assets are subject to many factors outside management’s control. Factors that can adversely impact realization include changes or deterioration in customer financial condition and creditworthiness, current and future market demand, customary risks associated with oil and gas exploration, production and other business activities, regional and global market demand and economic conditions, including geopolitical situations in and surrounding specific coun - - Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 25 Table of Contents tries or regions, government actions that restrict transactions, access to or transfers of assets or funds, other factors outside of management’s control when conducting activities in Russia and other foreign countries. Changes in income tax laws could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2009, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $309.3 million, after reduction for net deferred tax assets of $459,000. At December 31, 2009, valuation allowances of $65.1 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management is unable to determine that ultimate realization is more likely than not. These net deferred tax liabilities will likely reverse in future years and could negatively impact cash flows from operations in the years in which reversal occurs. Changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or method used in the accounting for income taxes, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition. Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at CMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance. Land use laws may negatively impact our growth. Our development of new motorsports facilities (and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of existing facilities) requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities or increase the costs of any such activities. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or other stock-based compensation; the sale of shares held by key personnel; or the default of loans under which some of our common stock is pledged. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 1,600,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans; by the issuance or sale of approximately 2,118,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans; or by the sale of approximately 29,000,800 shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including shares held by Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected if there was a default of one of the loans under which 12,540,000 shares of our common stock, owned by Mr. Smith and Sonic Financial Corporation, our affiliate through common ownership by Mr. Smith, have been pledged. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 26 Table of Contents 