Risk Factors”, we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedway and other properties, and motorsports events and other business risks. We believe our insurance levels are sufficient for our needs and consistent with insurance maintained by similar companies. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We have federally registered trademark and/or service mark rights in “Speedway Motorsports,” “Atlanta Motor Speedway,” “AutoFair,” “AvBlend,” “Bristol Motor Speedway,” “Charlotte Motor Speedway,” “Las Vegas Motor Speedway,” “Sears Point Raceway,” “Texas Motor Speedway,” “TMS,” “600 Racing Thunder Roadster,” “Legends Cars,” “Bandolero,” “Atomic Oil,” “WBL,” “Pour A New Engine Into Your Car,” “It Soaks Into Metal,” “Linkite,” “Lenckite,” “Micro-Lubricant,” “zMax,” “Motorsports by Mail,” “The Speedway Club,” “Top the Cops,” “Wild Man,” “Diesel 40 – The Engine Conditioner,” “Diesel 60 – The Fuel Conditioner,” “Diesel 90 – The Gear And Accessory Conditioner,” “Fans First” and “The Great American Speedway!,” “Lug Nut,” “Sparky,” and our corporate logos. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 13 Federal trademark and/or service mark registrations are pending with respect to “Seal of Champions Speedway Motorsports, Inc.,” “The Official Seal of Racing,” “New Hampshire Motor Speedway,” “Speedway World,” “Trophy Towers” and “Radio Without a Restrictor Plate.” We own state trademark and/or service mark registrations for “Atlanta Motor Speedway” (Georgia), “AMS” (Georgia), “Texas Motor Speedway” (Texas) and “TMS” (Texas). We have registered trademark rights in the “zMax” trademark in Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore and the European Union, registered trademark and service mark rights in the “Legends Cars” mark in the European Union, and registered service mark rights in the “Motorsports by Mail” mark in Japan. We have applications pending in Canada for trademark and service mark registrations for “Legends Cars.” We also have seven patents related to our Legends Car, Bandolero Car and Thunder Roadster design and technology. Our policy is to protect our intellectual property rights zealously, including use of litigation, to protect their proprietary value in sale and market recognition. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around LMS’s property for many years. Landfilling of general categories of municipal solid waste on the LMS property ceased in 1992. However, there is one landfill at LMS currently being permitted to receive inert debris and waste from land clearing activities (“LCID” landfill), and one LCID landfill that was closed in 1999. Two other LCID landfills on the LMS property were closed in 1994. LMS intends to allow similar LCID landfills to be operated on the LMS property in the future. Prior to 1999, LMS leased a portion of our property to Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (“Allied”) for use as a construction and demolition debris landfill (a “C&D” landfill), which received solid waste resulting solely from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on pavement, buildings or other structures, but could not receive inert debris, land-clearing debris or yard debris. The LMS C&D landfill is now closed. In addition, Allied owns and operates an active solid waste landfill adjacent to LMS. We believe the active solid waste landfill was constructed in such a manner as to minimize the risk of contamination to surrounding property. Management believes that our operations, including the landfills on our property, comply with all applicable federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Management is not aware of any situation related to landfill operations which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or future results of operations. Portions of the inactive solid waste landfill areas on the LMS property are subject to a groundwater monitoring program and data are submitted to the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (“DENR”). DENR has noted that data from certain groundwater sampling events have indicated levels of certain regulated compounds that exceed acceptable trigger levels and organic compounds that exceed regulatory groundwater standards. DENR has not required any remedial action by us at this time with respect to this situation. In the future, DENR could require us to take certain actions that could result in us incurring material costs. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report or other public statements we may make. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. However, many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or foresee, and undue reliance should not be put on forward-looking statements. Risk and other forward-looking factors may or may not ultimately be found correct. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in future periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K we file with the SEC. Bad weather adversely affects the profitability of our motorsports events, and postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us – We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, driving schools, and track rentals, among other things. Although we sell tickets well in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations particularly because we promote a finite number of premier events. Due to weather conditions, we may be required to move a race event to the next raceable day, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact our walk-up admissions, if any, and food, beverage and souvenir sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods because consumer demand can be affected by the success of past events. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is postponed because of weather, national security, natural disasters or other reasons, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from admissions, food, beverage and souvenir sales generated at the rescheduled event. If such an event is cancelled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing the revenues associated with the event, including live broadcast Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 14 revenues, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup or Nationwide Series, the amount of money we receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation could be reduced. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues. Lack of competitiveness in NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races or closeness of championship points races, the popularity of race car drivers, or changes made by NASCAR on conducting, promoting and racing as a series sanctioning body, can significantly impact operating results – A lack of competitiveness in Sprint Cup Series races or the closeness of the championship points race in any particular racing season can significantly impact our operating results. These and other factors, such as the popularity of race car drivers, can affect attendance at the Sprint Cup racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such Sprint Cup races are promoted. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues will not be adversely impacted by a lack of competitive racing or a close championship points race, or a decline in popularity of one or more race car drivers, in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. NASCAR periodically implements new rules or technical and other required changes for race teams and drivers, as well as event promoters, in attempts to increase safety, racing competition and fan interest, among other things. For example, NASCAR introduced a new prototype car for the Sprint Cup Series, the “Car of Tomorrow”, that should increase competition on the speedways and generate increased fan interest and new marketing opportunities. The new prototype car may or may not be successful or popular with fans. Such factors can affect attendance and other event related revenues for our Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such races are promoted. Rule changes can increase operating costs that we may or may not be able to control. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues or operating costs will not be adversely impacted by sanctioning body changes in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results – Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. Many factors related to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment rates, rising fuel prices, difficult consumer credit and housing markets, interest and tax rates and inflation, can significantly impact our operating results. Many factors related to corporate spending such as general economic and other business conditions, including consumer spending, rising fuel prices, interest and tax rates, hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorism attacks, military actions, and inflation, as well as various industry conditions, including corporate marketing and promotional spending and interest levels, can also significantly impact our operating results. Terrorism alerts, natural disasters, and other business conditions, can impact regional and national consumer and corporate spending sentiment, including significant increases in fuel prices and other consumer costs. These factors can affect attendance at our events, suite rentals, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales, driving schools and other track rentals, as well as the financial results of present and potential sponsors of our facilities and events and of the industry. Negative factors such as challenging economic conditions, public concerns over additional national security incidents and air travel, particularly when combined, can impact corporate and individual customer spending, and each negative factor can have varying effects on our operating results. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be adversely impacted by economic conditions, or should difficulties, restrictions or public concerns regarding air travel or military-related actions continue or increase, if additional national or local terrorist, catastrophic or other incidents occur, or if natural disasters occur, thereby possibly materially impacting our future operating results and growth. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions— We pursue acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. As previously discussed, we purchased NHMS in January 2008 for $340.0 million in cash. The purchase was funded with available cash and borrowings under our amended bank credit facility. The purchase of NHMS and other such transactions may involve significant challenges and risks. For example, the transaction may not advance our business strategy, we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment made, we may experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or management’s attention may be diverted from our other businesses or operations. Furthermore, the use of cash or additional borrowings could significantly impact our liquidity, impair our ability to borrow additional funds for other business purposes, or cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts, among other things. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or operating results. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 15 Also, management may from time to time evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. For example, in 2007, we sold the majority of assets and all operations of North Carolina Speedway, consisting principally of track rentals, because advancement of our business strategy and the foreseeable returns on investment were not satisfactory. We may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than optimal. In addition, there is a risk that we sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or operating results. Failure to be awarded a NASCAR event or deterioration in our relationship with NASCAR could adversely affect our profitability – Our success has been and will remain dependent to a significant extent upon maintaining a good working relationship with the organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR, the sanctioning body for Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Craftsman Truck Series races. Each NASCAR event is awarded on an annual basis. Although we believe our relationship with NASCAR is good, nonrenewal of a NASCAR event license would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to obtain NASCAR licenses to sponsor races at our facilities. Our strategy has included growth through the addition of motorsports facilities. Failure to obtain NASCAR events for any future additional motorsports facility could have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or favorably. Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us – NASCAR has announced it would consider potential track realignment of Sprint Cup Series racing events to desirable, potentially more profitable market venues of speedway operators. While relocation of any Sprint Cup event among our speedways we now or may own in the future could result in a net increase in our future operating profitability, long-lived assets of a speedway from where a Sprint Cup racing event may move could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Increased costs associated with, and inability to obtain, adequate insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition – Heightened concerns and challenges regarding property, casualty, liability, business interruption, and other insurance coverage have resulted from the national incidents on September 11, 2001. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our seven speedway facilities, which are generally located near highly populated cities and which hold motorsports events typically attended by large numbers of fans. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits. We cannot assure you that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurred, and liability for personal injuries and product liability claims could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations – While management attempts to obtain, and believes it presently has, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance currently in force, including coverage for acts of terrorism, would be adequate should one or multiple catastrophic events occur at or near any of our speedway facilities, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Once our present coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our speedway facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or company liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. The occurrence of additional national incidents, in particular incidents at sporting events, entertainment or other public venues, may significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and to spectators. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to protect us from material financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our premises in the ordinary course of business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. We may incur significant costs from partial self-insurance – We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 16 manage various risks associated with our speedway and other properties, and motorsports events and other business risks. We may increase the marketing of certain products using self-insured promotional warranty programs which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number and amount of claims significantly increase. We have increased and may further increase our self-insurance limits, which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number of incidents, damages, casualties or other claims below such self-insured limits increase. Management cannot guarantee that the number of uninsured losses will not increase. An increase in the number of uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations. Strong competition in the motorsports industry and with other professional and amateur sports could hinder our ability to maintain or improve our position in the industry – Motorsports promotion is a competitive industry. We compete in regional and national markets, and with ISC and other NASCAR related speedways, to promote events, especially NASCAR-sanctioned Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series events, and to a lesser extent, with other speedway owners to promote other NASCAR, IRL, NHRA and WOO sanctioned events. We believe our principal competitors are other motorsports promoters of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series or equivalent events. Certain of our competitors have resources that exceed ours. NASCAR is owned by the France family, who also control ISC. ISC presently hosts several Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series races. Our competitors attempt to build speedways and conduct racing and other motorsports related activities in new markets that may compete with us and our local and regional fan base or marketing opportunities. We compete for spectator interest with all forms of professional and amateur spring, summer, and fall sports, such as football, baseball, basketball and hockey, conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Las Vegas, Dallas-Fort Worth, and San Francisco, and regionally and nationally, many of which have resources that exceed ours, and with a wide range of other available entertainment and recreational activities. These competing events and activities may be held on the same days or weekends as our events. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or improve our position in light of such competition. The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth – Our success depends to a great extent upon the availability and performance of our senior management, particularly O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, H.A. Wheeler, our President and Chief Operating Officer, William R. Brooks, our Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Treasurer, and Marcus G. Smith, our Executive Vice President of National Sales and Marketing, none of whom are subject to employment agree- ments. Messrs. O. Bruton Smith and Wheeler have managed SMI as a team for over 30 years, and Mr. Brooks has been part of the management team for over 20 years. Mr. Marcus G. Smith is the son of Mr. O. Bruton Smith, and has been with SMI since 1996. Their experience within the industry, especially their working relationship with NASCAR, continues to be of considerable importance to us. The loss of any of our key personnel due to illness, retirement or otherwise, or our inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plans. Costs associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability – We believe significant growth in our revenues depends, in large part, on consistent investment in facilities. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital improvements in our facilities to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase spectator entertainment value, and to increase revenue. We frequently have a number of significant capital projects underway. Among other capital expenditures, the Company plans to significantly renovate LMS, including construction of a dragstrip, which is expected to host annual NHRA-sanctioned Nationals and other racing events, and make various improvements to NHMS acquired in January 2008. Certain plans involve capital expenditures over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined but will likely be material. Commencement of construction is subject to governmental approval and permitting processes, which could materially affect the ultimate cost and timing of construction. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various capital improvements at our facilities, including: • undetected soil or land conditions; • additional land acquisition costs; • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor; • unforeseen changes in design; • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site; and • national or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes. In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if those factors or our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Should projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to the inability to obtain necessary permits or other unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 17 Our Credit Facility permits significant expenditures for capital projects, investments in and transactions for motorsports and oil and gas and other ancillary businesses – As further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, our Credit Facility allows standby letters of credit of up to $75.0 million, capital expenditures of up to $80.0 million, and provides for additional borrowings of up to $99.7 million, subject to meeting specified conditions. As further described in “Properties” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Expenditures” below, we plan to continue to make substantial capital expenditures and investments. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. The sub-limit for standby letters of credit allows us to possibly increase our oil and gas activities and other business transactions. As of December 31, 2007, we had $690,000 in outstanding standby letters of credit associated with oil and gas activities. Our oil and gas business involves financial and operational risks different from those of our other operations as further described below and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Near-term Operating Factors – Oil and Gas Activities”. We may seek further increases in our available limits for standby letters of credit depending on the needs and outcome of our oil and gas business. Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments resulting in lower investment interest or earnings, reduce our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, lower our ratings by credit agencies, result in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, result in higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Future impairment of our property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, equity investments in associated entities and consolidated foreign investments could adversely affect our profitability – As of December 31, 2007, excluding the purchase of NHMS, we have net property and equipment of $1,066.4 million (including capitalized oil and gas exploration and production costs associated with consolidated foreign entities of $15.2 million (see below)), net goodwill and other intangible assets of $156.0 million, and equity investments in associated entities of $76.7 million (see below). Also, as further described in “Properties” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Expenditures” below, we plan to con- tinue to make substantial capital investments. As described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we periodically evaluate long-lived assets for possible impairment based on expected future undiscounted operating cash flows and profitability attributable to such assets or when indications of possible impairment occur. The evaluation is subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation. While we believe no impairment exists at December 31, 2007, different conditions or assumptions, or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluation and our future financial condition or results of operations. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, and if significantly negative or unfavorable, could become impaired and materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. See “Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us” above for related discussion on impairment considerations. As further described below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Near-term Operating Factors – Oil and Gas Activities”, we have purchased interests in two foreign entities owning certain oil and gas mineral rights in Russia, where we have conducted oil and gas exploration and production activities. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s property and equipment includes capitalized oil and gas exploration and production costs associated with consolidated foreign entities of $15.2 million as of December 31, 2007. These amounts consist principally of capitalized costs for oil and gas mineral rights, road construction, and exploration and drilling predominately with unproven reserves and, to a lesser extent, proven reserves accounted for under the full cost accounting method. As further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates – Recoverability of Property and Equipment, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and Equity Investments in Associated Entities”, the Company performs a quarterly ceiling test to evaluate whether carrying values of our full cost pools exceed ceiling limitations. Ceiling tests could be found to no longer support some or all of the recorded carrying values due to many reasons, most of which are not under management’s control. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to legal actions affecting or involving Visheraneft, one of the entities owning certain mineral rights the Company purchased. While management believes the outcome of legal actions affecting Visheraneft should be resolved in the Company’s favor, an unfavorable outcome of these proceedings could have a material adverse impact on its future finan- Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 18 cial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, while management believes no writedown of capitalized costs was necessary as of December 31, 2007, the carrying value of current and future investments could become impaired from failed ceiling tests, insufficient sustained profitability or operating cash flows resulting from various factors as described below in “Our oil and gas business incurs financial and operational risks different from those of our other operations” and others. Such factors, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could result in an impairment charge that has a material adverse impact on the Company’s future financial condition or results of operations. As further described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in March 2008, because of the ongoing challenges with oil and gas activities, the Company is contemplating discontinuing those operations during 2008, although no final decision has been made. At this time, the Company no longer plans to expand or increase its investment in connection with the two foreign entities or make other foreign investments except as described herein. The Company may decide or be required to spend certain additional amounts or take legal actions to protect or preserve its interests in oil and gas mineral rights and maintain or maximize the potential recovery value of proven and unproven reserves, and to protect other aspects of the Company’s oil and gas investments. This may include entering into other contracts or joint venture arrangements depending on perceived opportunities for maintaining or maximizing potential recovery value. Such additional expenditures, although presently undeterminable, could become material depending on the facts, circumstances and ultimate outcome of any attempted recovery or resolution. Those costs, if significant and ultimately not recovered, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our equity investments in associated entities consist primarily of our 50% owned joint venture Motorsports Authentics. At December 31, 2007, our $76.7 million investment in MA is material and our share of future associated profits or losses may or may not be significant. Future profits or losses could be affected by or depend on future demand, trends, and other market conditions and factors such as the success of motorsports, the popularity of its licensed drivers and teams, particularly NASCAR’s Sprint Cup Series, the success of the “Car of Tomorrow”, competition for MA products, and the success of MA management in achieving sustained profitability. MA’s ability to compete successfully and profitably depends on a number of factors both within and outside management’s control. As of December 31, 2007, MA had a material amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. We may increase our investment in MA, including additional equity contributions or loans. The current and future carrying value of this equity investment could become impaired for changes in profitability, operating cash flows, market, economic conditions, and other factors that could adversely impact its recovery. Should MA’s long-lived assets become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge, we would likely be required to record our 50% share which could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. As further described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company’s carrying value for its MA equity investment was significantly reduced as of December 31, 2007 for impairment charges reflected by MA. As of December 31, 2007, we believe there were no indications of a decline below MA’s carrying value that was other than temporary. However, MA continues to have a material amount of inventory, goodwill and other intangible assets. Should the fair value of our equity investment in MA decline below its carrying value, and such decline was other than temporary, we would be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value to fair value, which could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. Our revenues depend on the promotional success of our marketing campaigns – Similar to many companies, we spend significant amounts on advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns for our speedways and other business activities. Such marketing activities include, among others, promotion of ticket sales, luxury suite rentals, hospitality and other services for our speedway events and facilities, and advertising associated with our wholesale and retail distribution of racing and other sports related souvenir merchandise and apparel, micro-lubricant® products, and Legends Car activities. There can be no assurance that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate revenues or profits. Government regulation of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us – The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry is generally subject to greater governmental regulation than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain of our sponsorship contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. The alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry has provided substantial financial support to the motorsports industry through, among other things, the purchase of advertising time, the sponsorship of racing teams and the sponsorship of racing series such as the Busch Series, and generally are subject to greater gov- Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 ernmental regulation than are other sponsors of our events. We are unaware of any proposed additional governmental regulation that would materially limit the availability to motorsports of promotion, sponsorship or advertising revenue from the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry. We cannot assure you that the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry will continue to sponsor motorsports events, suitable alternative sponsors could be located, or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events sponsored by the alcoholic beverage industry at any of our facilities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverage products could adversely affect us. Our chairman owns a majority of SMI’s common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders – As of March 3, 2008, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, approximately 67% of the undiluted outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Smith will continue to control the outcome of substantially all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors. The recent amendment to our Credit Facility and purchase of NHMS significantly increased our outstanding indebtedness, and our current or future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, operations or ability to pay dividends, or prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under debt agreements – We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $428.5 million. After the purchase of NHMS on January 11, 2008, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $728.5 million, and the amended Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $99.7 million. Management anticipates that increased debt interest payments and working capital requirements, if any, for NHMS will be largely funded by advance ticket and other event related revenues associated with upcoming NASCAR and other racing events at NHMS. However, our substantial indebtedness and ability to increase our outstanding borrowings could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures costs, acquisitions, debt service and other general corporate requirements, and dividends; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • subject us to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase; • cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, our debt agreements contain financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limits or restricts our ability to borrow additional funds, make acquisitions, create liens on our properties and make investments. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Despite current indebtedness levels, the Company or new lines of business may be able to incur substantially more debt. In addition, we may be able to secure this additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks they and we now face could intensify. We may redeem some or all of the Senior Subordinated Notes at any time at annually declining redemption premiums ranging from 103.375% of par in fiscal years beginning June 1, 2008 to par after June 1, 2011, which could limit funds otherwise available for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. Restrictions imposed by terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing – The indenture for our Senior Subordinated Notes restricts, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to do any of the following: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions; • incur liens; • make specified types of investments; • apply net proceeds from certain asset sales; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate; • restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries; • sell equity interests of subsidiaries; • sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of assets; and • incur indebtedness that is subordinate in right of payment to any senior indebtedness and senior in right of payment to the Senior Subordinated Notes. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 20 Our Credit Facility contains more extensive and restrictive covenants than the indenture for the Senior Subordinated Notes. In addition to covenants of the type described above, the Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, as well as limits our acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments. Our ability to meet those covenants, financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Credit Facility. If there were an event of default under the Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral, if any, granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any senior indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the senior indebtedness and our other indebtedness. The Credit Facility and the Senior Subordinated Notes indentures contain cross-default provisions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Should we pursue further development and/or acquisition opportunities, the timing, size and success as well as associated potential capital commitments of which are unknown at this time, we may need to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financings. There can be no assurance that adequate debt and equity financing will be available on satisfactory terms or will be permitted under the covenants of the Senior Subordinated Notes or the Credit Facility. Failure to obtain further financing could have a negative effect on our business and operations. Our oil and gas business incurs financial and operational risks different from those of our other operations – As further described above in “Future impairment of our property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, equity investments in associated entities and consolidated foreign investments could adversely affect our profitability”, and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in March 2008, the Company began formulating plans to discontinue its oil and gas operations. Although discontinuation plans are being formulated, many or most of the following and other risk factor discussions remain relevant to the Company’s oil and gas business activities. We have engaged in oil and gas exploration and production activities, and the purchase and sale of bulk petroleum products and associated commodity transactions. These bulk petroleum products have consisted predominately of crude oil and associated distillates of crude oil. We have conducted these business activities primarily in Russia, Central America, North America, South America, Africa, and the United Kingdom. We also hold interests in two foreign entities owning certain oil and gas mineral rights in Russia, where we conduct oil and gas exploration and production activities. We contract with a United States company who provides us strategic, management and operational capabilities, and we provide financing and access to financial markets, in connection with these activities. We also, from time to time, may have profit and loss sharing arrangements with certain entities on the purchasing and selling of specified bulk petroleum products, and our share of profits and losses is negotiated on a transaction-by-transaction basis, but generally ranges from 30% to 50%. From time to time, we also have entered into futures contracts associated with petroleum products, utilize letters of credit for the purchase and sale of bulk petroleum products, and guarantee obligations of certain third parties to facilitate the purchase of bulk petroleum products in exchange for part of the anticipated profits that may be derived by those third parties on such transactions. Our Credit Facility contains a separate sub-limit for letters of credit up to $75.0 million for use in oil and gas activities and other business transactions, and permits the Company to invest in Oil-Chem and its direct or indirect subsidiaries for oil and gas activities up to specified amounts, among other things. Management recognizes that these oil and gas activities have financial and operational risks different from those of our core operations. Many are risks ordinarily experienced by any new business and risks ordinarily associated with conducting business in foreign countries. Also, many are risks generally associated with petroleum products and oil and gas related activities, including environmental, commodities, hedging and similar risks common to such activities. Our oil and gas activities include exploration and production arrangements that may be unsuccessful for many reasons including weather, cost overruns, dry wells, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Proven or unproven reserves may be less than originally expected or found not cost beneficial to extract. Successful drilling of a well does not ensure ultimate realization of sufficient profits or return on investments because of a variety of factors, including geological, market, geopolitical and other unforeseen factors. Additionally, unsuccessful wells can result in costs with no direct associated revenue streams. These investments involve a variety of operating risks, including: • fires, explosions, blow-outs, surface cratering, and casing collapse; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, and formation water; • natural disasters, such as earthquakes, and adverse weather conditions; and Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 21 • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, and pipeline ruptures. Oil and gas business profit margins could be affected by factors such as purchase price, sales price, transaction, unrecoverable and other operating costs, and could be less than those on our other operations. Oil and gas transactions may continue to occur in the near future, and they may or may not be significant. While revenues could become significant, resulting profit margins could be affected by market and other factors such as transaction, unrecoverable and other operating costs, and could be less than those on existing operations. The accounting for oil and gas, including underlying hedge, transactions can be affected by many factors, including contract terms, title transfer, settlement timing, underlying hedge terms and other transactional terms or conditions. Future transactions and resulting gains or losses, if any, could be reported on either a gross or net basis. Mark-to-market accounting may be used for certain hedges and bulk petroleum purchases or supply contracts may constitute an energy contract that is deemed a derivative under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, depending on the underlying transactional terms and conditions. Also, future gains or losses on such contracts could be significant depending on fluctuations in market prices of the associated covered petroleum products and timing differences between maturities of hedges and sales of petroleum products. Depending on settlement timing and other transactional factors, accounts receivable, inventories, liabilities, and outstanding letters of credit could significantly increase during and between reporting periods. At this time, management is unable to determine whether resulting revenues or profits or losses could be material. Oil and gas activities can involve concentrations of credit and other risks different from the Company’s motorsports operations. Realization of receivables, inventories and investments, and the ability to invest and compete successfully and profitably, are subject to many factors outside management’s control. Factors that can adversely impact realization include changes or deterioration in customer financial condition and creditworthiness, current and future market demand, customary risks associated with oil and gas exploration, production and other business activities, regional and global market and economic conditions, including geopolitical situations in and surrounding specific countries or regions, government actions that restrict transactions, access to or transfers of assets or funds, other factors outside of management’s control when conducting operations in Russia and other foreign countries, global petroleum product supply and demand, regional or worldwide natural disasters such as hurricanes that adversely impact supply channels, merchandising, distribution and operating costs, and other factors. Default on payment by one or more customers, or should inventory not be realized or recovered, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The carrying value of current and future investments could become impaired from insufficient sustained profitability and operating cash flows resulting from the aforementioned and other factors. Such factors, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could result in an impairment charge that has a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. Other factors that can adversely impact our oil and gas business, as well as operations conducted in foreign countries, include current and future market demand, regional and global market and economic conditions, including geopolitical situations, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorist attacks or military actions in and surrounding specific countries or regions, government actions that restrict transactions, access to or transfers of assets or funds, global petroleum product supply and demand, regional or worldwide natural disasters such as hurricanes that adversely impact supply channels, merchandising, distribution and operating costs, changes or deterioration in customer financial condition and creditworthiness, and other factors. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Near- term Operating Factors – Oil and Gas Activities” below, and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements – “Oil and Gas Activities” and “Concentrations of Credit Risk” for additional information. Changes in income tax laws could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations – At December 31, 2007, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $140.4 million, after reduction for net deferred tax assets of $26.9 million. At December 31, 2007, valuation allowances of $22.8 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management is unable to determine that ultimate realization is more likely than not. These net deferred tax liabilities will likely reverse in future years and could negatively impact cash flows from operations in the years in which reversal occurs. Also, we filed a change in tax accounting method in 2005 that is expected to reduce our tax depreciation expense for certain previous years and is being included in federal and state taxable income over four years beginning in 2005. Accelerated income taxes of $28.2 million were paid in 2007. Management believes the Company’s use of a seven-year recovery period prior to 2005 was appropriate in view of then existing tax law and related guidance. These accelerated amounts should be substantially recovered in succeeding years from increased tax depreciation as these assets continue to be depreciated for tax purposes over longer periods. Changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or method used Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 22 in the accounting for income taxes, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition – Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at LMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance. Land use laws may negatively impact our growth – Our development of new motorsports facilities (and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of existing facilities) requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities, and/or increase the costs of any such activities. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or other stock-based compensation, or the sale of shares held by key personnel – The market price for our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 1,819,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected by the issuance or sale of approximately 2,594,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans, or the sale of approximately 29,001,000 shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, including shares held by Mr. Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 