ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are all material known risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report or other public statements we may make. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. However, many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or foresee, and undue reliance should not be put on forward-looking statements. Risk and other forward-looking factors may or may not ultimately be found correct. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in future periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 10-K or other forms we file with the SEC. The United States and global economic slowdown, ongoing disruptions in the financial markets and geopolitical events, could have a continued significant adverse impact on consumer and corporate spending and our business. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact our operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. High unemployment, high fuel prices, tight credit markets, difficult residential real estate and mortgage markets, and stock market volatility, among other factors, have led to lower levels of consumer confidence and recessionary conditions. Those economic factors have dampened, and may continue to dampen, consumer and corporate spending, including adversely impacting disposable income and recreational and entertainment spending. Such reduced spending has resulted, and may continue to result, in negatively impacting our admissions, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales demand, luxury suite, and other event related Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 13 Table of Contents revenue, with related effects on our motorsports and non-motorsports activities and future revenues, profitability and cash flows. Higher unemployment or fuel or health-care costs could have a significant adverse impact our future results of operations. While the direction and strength of the United States economy appear to be improving, significant uncertainty remains as to its recovery strength, timing and longevity. Government responses and actions may or may not successfully restore prolonged stability to the credit and consumer markets and improved economic conditions. Record state and federal budgetary deficits could result in government responses such as higher consumer and corporate income or other tax rates. Governmental spending deficits could also lead to higher inflation and higher interest rates and continued difficult borrowing conditions for consumers and corporate customers. Whether or when these economic conditions might improve cannot be determined at this time. Other factors that can affect consumer and corporate spending include hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorist attacks, military actions, air travel concerns, and geopolitical events, as well as various industry and other business conditions. Such factors or incidents, even if not directly impacting us, can disrupt or otherwise adversely impact the financial results, spending sentiment and interest of our present or potential customers. These factors can adversely impact local, regional and national consumer and corporate spending sentiment. There can be no assurance that government response to the economic slowdown and disruptions in the financial and credit markets will stabilize the economy or financial and credit markets for long periods. These economic conditions might not continue to improve or could worsen. Each of these aforementioned negative factors, and particularly when combined, may further adversely impact corporate and individual customer spending and have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. Bad weather or postponement or cancellation of motorsports events could adversely affect us. We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, driving schools and track rentals, among other things. Although we sell many tickets in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly because we promote a limited number of premier events. Due to inclement weather conditions, we may be required to move a race event to the next raceable day, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact our walk-up admissions and food, beverage and souvenir sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods because consumer demand can be affected by the success or experience of past events. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is postponed because of weather, national security concerns, natural disasters or other reasons, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from admissions, food, beverage and souvenir sales generated at the rescheduled event. If such an event is cancelled, we would incur expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event, as well as losing associated event revenues, including live broadcast revenues, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup or Nationwide Series, the amount of money we receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation could be reduced. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues in excess of amounts scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the cancelled event. Lack of competitiveness in NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races or closeness of championship points races, the popularity of race car drivers or changes made by NASCAR on conducting, promoting and racing as a series sanctioning body, can significantly impact our operating results. A lack of competitiveness in Sprint Cup Series races or the closeness of the championship points race, racecar driver popularity, and the success of NASCAR racing in general, in any particular racing season can significantly impact our operating results. Various performance factors of racing competitors, particularly popular drivers, can affect on-track competition and the appeal of racing. New or changed racing teams could be formed with drivers that generate less fan interest or race less competitively. These and other factors can affect attendance, corporate marketing interest, media attention, and the promotional marketing appeal for NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such races are promoted. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse impact on our operating results. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 14 Table of Contents NASCAR periodically implements new rules or technical and other required changes for race teams and drivers, as well as event promoters, in attempts to increase safety, racing competition and fan and media interest, among other things. For example, NASCAR implemented “double-file restarts”, and is planning for car manufacturers Chevrolet, Toyota, Dodge and Ford to bring brand identity back to “stock car” racing with the introduction of re-styled Sprint Cup cars in 2013, in efforts to increase competition on the speedways and generate increased fan interest and new marketing opportunities. These and other periodically implemented changes may or may not become more successful or popular with fans. Such factors can affect attendance and other event related revenues for our Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such races are promoted. Rule changes can increase operating costs that we may or may not be able to control. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues or operating costs will not be adversely impacted by sanctioning body changes in any particular season, thereby adversely impacting our operating results. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations. From time to time, we pursue acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy, which may involve significant challenges and risks. For example, transactions may not advance our business strategy or we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investments. We may experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems and technology, or management’s attention may be diverted from our other businesses or operations. Furthermore, the use of cash or additional borrowings to fund such transactions could significantly impact our liquidity, impair our ability to borrow additional funds for other business purposes or cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts, among other things. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. We may continue to significantly expand and improve our speedway facilities, involving material capital expenditures over several years in amounts or nature that have not yet been determined. Such expenditures may or may not increase our future success and the ability to compete and operate successfully and profitably depends on many factors outside of management’s control. Management may from time to time evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. For example, as further discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we discontinued our oil and gas operations in 2008. We may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than optimal. In addition, there is a risk that we will sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Failure to be awarded a NASCAR event or deterioration in our relationship with NASCAR could adversely affect our profitability. Our success has been and will remain, to a significant extent, dependent upon maintaining a good working relationship with organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR, the sanctioning body for Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck Series races. Each NASCAR event is awarded on an annual basis. Although we believe our relationship with NASCAR is good, nonrenewal of a NASCAR event license could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to obtain NASCAR licenses to sponsor races at our facilities. Relocation of, or failure to relocate, motorsports events could adversely affect us. At any time, we may evaluate or attempt to realign one or more NASCAR Sprint Cup Series (or other motorsports series) race dates among our multiple track facilities. For example, we obtained approval to realign an annual NASCAR Sprint Cup racing event from AMS to KyS beginning in 2011. Many factors and alternatives must be considered, including the popularity and profitability of various races, the relative seating capacity at each track, alternative uses and revenues for such tracks in the event a race is moved, the costs of any capital expenditures to upgrade or expand facilities, the lead time required to complete any such upgrades or expansion, alternative uses of capital, any existing or potential governmental tax incentives, changing economic conditions at the individual tracks and in the economy as a whole, as well as various other strategic issues. Different economic or Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents industry conditions or assumptions, changes in projected cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, or actual race date realignments that differ significantly from those assumed in any impairment evaluation, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluations and future financial condition or results of operations. NASCAR has previously stated it would consider potential track realignment of Sprint Cup Series racing events to desirable, potentially more profitable market venues of speedway operators, but is not obligated to do so. Similarly, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or favorably. While relocation of any Sprint Cup event among our speedways we now own or may own in the future could result in a net increase or decrease in our future operating profitability, long-lived assets of a speedway from where a Sprint Cup racing event may move could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Our NASCAR broadcasting rights revenues are significant and changes could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Our NASCAR broadcasting rights revenues are significant multi-year contracted revenue and cash flow sources for us. Any significant adverse changes to such rights revenues could adversely impact our results. The current eight-year NASCAR broadcasting rights agreement expires after 2014, and provides us with increases in annual contracted revenues averaging 3% per year. As further discussed in “Business – Industry Overview”, NASCAR recently announced a new expanded eight-year, multi-platform NASCAR Broadcasting Rights Agreement was reached with Fox Sports Media Group beginning in 2015 for a portion of our sport’s season. While this new long-term contract contains an overall revenue increase over present contract terms, annual revenue amounts for individual contract years have not yet been established, and may or may not initially be lower than the final year revenue of the current contract. While we believe this bodes well for NASCAR’s negotiations for the remaining portion of our sport’s season, and contract increases are anticipated, there can be no assurance that other new contract(s) will be reached or on terms more favorable than current contract terms. Changes or trends in television broadcast ratings may impact future renewals. Material changes in the media or motorsports industries could result in broadcasting or ancillary media contract renewals different from historical practices. See “Business – Industry Overview” for related discussion on 2012 decreases in ancillary rights revenue. Future changes in race schedules could impact broadcasting revenues. Similar to many televised sports, overall seasonal averages for motorsports may increase or decrease from year to year, and television ratings for certain individual events may fluctuate from year to year for any number of reasons. NASCAR ratings can impact attendance at our events and sponsorship opportunities. While these long-term rights agreements (existing and upcoming) will likely result in annual revenue increases over the contract period, associated annual increases in purse and sanction fees paid to NASCAR may continue. Increased costs associated with, and inability to obtain, adequate insurance and the risks of partial self-insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our eight speedway facilities, which are generally located near highly populated cities and which hold motorsports events typically attended by large numbers of fans. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits. Future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits could adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our future operating results. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedways and other properties and motorsports events and other business risks. We may increase the marketing of certain products using self-insured promotional warranty programs that could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number and amount of claims significantly increase. We have increased and may further increase our self-insurance limits, which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number of incidents, damages, casualties or other claims below such self-insured limits increase. Management cannot guarantee that the number of uninsured losses will not increase. An increase in the number of uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position and results of operations. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 16 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurred or major motorsports events were cancelled, and liability for personal injuries and product liability claims could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Management attempts to obtain, and believes it presently has, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers. However, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance currently in force, including coverage for acts of terrorism, would be adequate should one or multiple catastrophic events occur at or near any of our speedway facilities, or one or more of our major motorsports events were cancelled, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Once our present coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our speedway facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position and results of operations if our asset damage or liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. The occurrence of regional or national incidents, in particular incidents at sporting events, entertainment or other public venues, may significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and to spectators. We believe we maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient to protect us from material financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our premises in the ordinary course of business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. The financial stability of certain insurance companies that provide our insurance coverage could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical and other events or conditions as further discussed above. In that case, the ability of these insurance companies to pay our potential claims could be impaired, and we might not be able to obtain adequate replacement insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. Any of these events could harm our business, and we cannot provide assurance that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties in obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our future financial position or results of operation. Strong competition in the motorsports industry and with other professional and amateur sports could hinder our ability to maintain or improve our position in the industry. Motorsports promotion is a competitive industry. We compete in local, regional and national markets, and with ISC and other NASCAR related speedways, to promote events, especially NASCAR-sanctioned Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series events, and to a lesser extent, with other speedway owners to promote other NASCAR, IndyCar, NHRA and WOO sanctioned events. We believe our principal competitors are other motorsports promoters of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series or equivalent events. Certain of our competitors have resources that exceed ours. NASCAR is owned by the France family, who also controls ISC. ISC presently hosts a significant number of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series races. Our competitors may attempt to build speedways and conduct racing and other motorsports related activities in new markets that may compete with us and our local and regional fan base or marketing opportunities. Furthermore, we believe that industry competitors are actively pursuing internal growth and industry consolidation. We compete for spectator interest with all forms of professional and amateur spring, summer and fall sports, such as football, baseball, basketball, soccer and hockey, conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth, Las Vegas, Lexington, Louisville, and San Francisco, and locally, regionally and nationally, many of which have resources that exceed ours, and with a wide range of other available entertainment and recreational activities. These competing events and activities may be held on the same days or weekends as our events. We also compete with improving and expanding media coverage and content by network and cable broadcasters, particularly for Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, and with the ongoing improvements in high-definition television technology. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or improve our position in light of such competition. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth. Our success depends to a great extent upon the availability and performance of our senior management. Their experience within the industry, especially their working relationship with NASCAR, continues to be of considerable importance to us. The loss of any of our key personnel due to illness, retirement or otherwise, or our inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plans. We may make significant expenditures for capital projects and investments, and costs and uncertainties associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability. Our Credit Facility allows for annual capital expenditures of up to $75.0 million, and provides for additional borrowings of up to $99.1 million as of December 31, 2012 subject to meeting specified conditions. We may make material capital improvements over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for related information on our amended Credit Facility. The cost, profitability, timing or success of future capital projects and investments is subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, including: • delays in or denials of government approvals or permits • undetected soil or land, including environmental, conditions • additional land acquisition costs • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor • unforeseen changes in design • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site • national or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments or our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, lower our ratings by credit agencies, increase our difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, cause higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Should projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Also, should improvement projects not produce a sufficiently high economic yield, including those requiring demolition of a component of a speedway facility, or where capitalization of demolition, construction and historical component costs are limited to the revised estimated value of the project, capitalized expenditures could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Future impairment of our property and equipment, other intangible assets and goodwill could adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we have net property and equipment of $1,148.4 million, net other intangible assets of $395.0 million and goodwill of $138.7 million. We periodically evaluate long-lived assets for possible impairment. Our evaluation methodology, assumptions and results are further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates” and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management’s latest annual assessment found the estimated fair value for two reporting units exceeded carrying values by a relatively nominal amount. Should these reporting units or their indefinite-lived intangible assets not achieve projected cash flows or profitability, or should actual capital expenditures exceed current plans, estimated fair values could be reduced to below carrying values resulting in material non-cash impairment charges. The evaluations are subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation. While we believe no unrecognized impairment exists at December 31, 2012, different conditions, trends or assumptions or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluation and our future financial condition or results of operations. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 18 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position, our ability to meet our obligations under our debt instruments, and our ability to pay dividends. We have substantial amounts of debt and debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $521.3 million, or $526.0 million excluding issuance discount of $4.7 million, as further described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our substantial indebtedness and leverage could make it more difficult and costly to borrow money and may reduce funds available for financing our operations and other business activities and have other important consequences, including the following: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payment of principal, debt redemption premium, if any, and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, stock repurchases, and other corporate purposes; • our ability to adjust to adverse or changing market conditions and withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be vulnerable to additional risk if there is a downturn in general economic conditions or our business; • we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less leverage and greater operating and financial flexibility than we do; • our debt levels may increase our interest costs or increase the risks that we may not be able to obtain additional financing or obtain financing at acceptable rates; • our debt levels may increase our difficulties in refinancing or replacing our present outstanding obligations; and • our debt levels may cause lowered ratings by credit agencies, resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts. Each or all of the factors could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness and is therefore not available for use in our business. In 2012, we paid $41.6 million in interest on our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, legislative, regulatory, industry, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our operations are substantially impacted by the success of NASCAR in the promotion and conduct of racing as a sanctioning body, our relationship with NASCAR, the popularity of NASCAR and other motorsports generally, and the impact of competition, including competition from other speedway owners like ISC. Although under our control, our cash outlays for dividends are funded in part with cash that would otherwise be available for our capital spending, repurchases of common stock or other liquidity needs, and dividend increases further limit cash otherwise available for such uses or needs. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. As further described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we may redeem some or all of our 2016 Senior Notes and our 6 3/4% Senior Notes due 2019 (the “2019 Senior Notes”) at any time at annually declining redemption premiums beginning June 1, 2013 and February 1, 2015, respectively. As further described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we plan to fully redeem the 2016 Senior Notes (with aggregate principal of $275.0 million) in the second quarter 2013 using borrowings under the 2013 Credit Facility, including Term Loan borrowings. Such redemptions could limit funds otherwise available for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. However, we may not be able to complete such refinancing or redemption on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future borrowing costs on current outstanding or future indebtedness could substantially increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $521.3 million and our Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $99.1 million. Our operating results have benefited from relatively low interest rates on our floating rate Credit Facility and future increases, if significant, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results. Our future capital spending or investments could significantly increase our future outstanding debt. Also, our future interest and bor- Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents rowing costs under our Credit Facility, any refinanced or replaced current outstanding indebtedness, or new additional financing could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability. We are currently unable to predict if or when the interest rates could change. Our significant indebtedness levels and leverage could result in higher interest and other borrowing costs and more restrictive financial and other loan covenants under any new credit facility or other borrowing arrangements. As further discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, interest rates under our Credit Facility are based on specified tier levels that are adjustable periodically based upon certain consolidated total leverage ratios. Our current planned or unplanned future capital spending and possible increases in our future outstanding indebtedness, along with our current leverage, could further reduce the amounts by which we exceed minimum required covenant compliance levels and result in changes to our interest cost tier levels under our Credit Facility. Future changes in such surplus in our compliance levels or interest cost tiers could result in increased interest costs on current or future indebtedness, restricted or reduced borrowings and availability under our Credit Facility, and increased costs of borrowing for any new financing. Each or all of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions imposed by terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing. The indentures for our 2016 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes and our Credit Facility agreement restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to do any of the following: • incur additional debt or liens • pay dividends or make distributions • make specified types of investments • apply net proceeds from certain asset sales • engage in transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate • sell equity interests of subsidiaries, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of assets • incur indebtedness subordinate in right of payment to any senior indebtedness and senior in right of payment to the 2016 Senior Notes or 2019 Senior Notes Because of our significant outstanding indebtedness, debt covenant compliance is important to our operations. Our Credit Facility is the primary source of committed funding for our planned capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, such as repurchases of our common stock and working capital needs. Our Credit Facility contains more extensive and restrictive covenants than our 2016 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes indentures, and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, as further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity”. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Future default on any of these covenants could result in default under the underlying debt agreements. Non-compliance with financial covenant ratios or other covenants could prevent us from being able to access further borrowings under, or require repayment of, our Credit Facility. Our ability to meet those covenants, financial ratios and tests can be affected by material impairment or other charges, declines in profitability or cash flows or other economic or market factors beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those tests. Our Credit Facility, 2016 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes contain cross-default provisions. A default under any of these debt agreements could likely trigger cross-default provisions allowing lenders, in each case, to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements, including declaring all amounts outstanding, accrued interest or other obligations to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, such lenders could proceed against collateral, if any, securing that indebtedness. If any indebtedness was accelerated, there can be no assurance that we could repay or refinance the accelerated amounts due. Under these covenants, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 20 Table of Contents beneficial to us. Should we pursue further development or acquisition opportunities, the timing, size and success, as well as associated potential capital commitments of which are unknown at this time, we may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financings. There can be no assurance that adequate debt and equity financing will be available if and when needed or on satisfactory terms, or permitted under our debt arrangements. Failure to obtain further financing could have a negative effect on our business and operations. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be permitted to incur significant additional debt in the future. Also, we may be able to secure additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. Furthermore, any new financing arrangements may contain additional restrictive and financial covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit many actions including, but not limited to, our ability to incur debt, create liens, prepay debt, pay dividends, limit capital expenditures, investments or transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets, or engage in mergers, consolidations or other transactions. Failure to maintain compliance with any new covenants could constitute a default, which could accelerate payment due of any amounts outstanding under any new or existing debt agreements. Government regulation of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us. The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry is generally subject to greater governmental regulation than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain of our sponsorship and other marketing contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. The alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry has provided substantial financial support to the motorsports industry through, among other things, the purchase of advertising time, sponsorship of racing teams and past sponsorship of racing series such as the Winston Cup (now Sprint Cup) Series and the Busch (now Nationwide) Series. We cannot assure you that the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry will continue to sponsor motorsports events or participate in other promotional activities, suitable alternative sponsors will be located, or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events involving alcoholic beverage industry sponsors or promotional activities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverage products could adversely affect us. Failure to maintain adequate security for certain customer-related information could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, subject us to litigation or adverse regulatory actions or cause us to incur substantial additional costs. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store certain financial and other information from individuals, corporations and others, including customers, employees and outside contractors. We process customer payment card information, perform credit, employment and other business related inquiries, and collect customary information used for marketing purposes. We contract with third-parties for processing orders and payments of a large portion of our tickets and other access sold for our events, much of which is transacted indirectly through links with our internal websites. Our online operations depend upon secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting and transacting cashless payments. We commit significant internal and external resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our networks and data, but there can be no assurance these security measures provide complete security. Our or third-party networks could be breached and we could be unable to protect sensitive data. A breach of our security networks that results in personal, corporate or other sensitive information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with current or prospective customers and others. Such security breach could result in litigation against us, adverse regulatory actions or imposing substantial penalties or fines. Also, a security breach could require or result in us spending significant additional resources on our information security systems and could disrupt our operations, particularly sales and marketing. Any significant breach could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. Our chairman owns a majority of our common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of March 1, 2013, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, 29,000,800 shares of our common stock. As a result, he will continue to control the outcome of substantially all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents As a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules, we also qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors. Although we qualify, we do not currently use this “controlled company” exemption. Our large net deferred tax liabilities, and changes in income tax laws, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2012, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $385.0 million, after reduction for net deferred tax assets of $741,000. At December 31, 2012, valuation allowances of $65.9 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management has determined that ultimate realization is not more likely than not. These net deferred tax liabilities will likely reverse in future years and could negatively impact cash flows from operations in the years in which reversal occurs. Changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or methods used in the accounting for income taxes, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition. Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at CMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance. Land use laws may negatively impact our growth. Our development of new motorsports facilities (and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of existing facilities) requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities or increase the costs of any such activities. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock unit awards or other stock-based compensation, sales of shares held by key personnel, or default of loans under which some of our common stock is pledged. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 1,148,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans, by the issuance or sale of approximately 1,930,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans, or by the sale of approximately 29,000,800 shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including shares held by Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected if there was a default of one of the non-Company loans under which 10,550,000 shares of our common stock, owned by Mr. Smith and Sonic Financial Corporation, an affiliate through common ownership by Mr. Smith, have been pledged. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 22 Table of Contents 