Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4 Removed and Reserved 28 PART II Item 5 Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 99 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 99 Item 9B Other Information 100 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 101 Item 11 Executive Compensation 101 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Directors Independence 101 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 101 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 102 Signatures 106 Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 1 Table of Contents The following discussion and analysis should be read along with the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the accompanying Notes, appearing later in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Such forward-looking statements may include (i) statements that reflect projections or expectations of the Company’s future financial or economic performance; (ii) statements that are not historical information; (iii) statements of the Company’s beliefs, intentions, objectives, plans, and strategies for future operations, including, but not limited to, those contained in “Legal Proceedings”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”; (iv) statements relating to the Company’s operations or activities, including revenues, costs and margins for 2011 and beyond; and (v) statements relating to the Company’s future capital expenditures, hosting of races, broadcasting rights, dividends, common stock repurchases, sponsorships, financing needs and costs, merchandising joint ventures, discontinued oil and gas activities, and legal proceedings and other contingencies. Words such as “anticipates”, “approximates”, “believes”, “could”, “estimates”, “expects”, “hopes”, “intends”, “likely”, “may”, “objectives”, “plans”, “possible”, “projects”, “seeks”, “should”, “will” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. No assurance can be given that actual results or events will not differ materially from those projected, estimated, assumed or anticipated in any such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could result in such differences, in addition to other factors noted with such forward-looking statements, include those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or other forms we may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to the Company as of the date filed, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking information contained in this report. The Company’s website is located at www.speedwaymotorsports.com. The Company makes available free of charge, through its website, the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) under the Exchange Act. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after those materials are electronically filed with the SEC. The Company’s SEC filings are publicly available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document the Company files with the SEC at its Public Reference Facilities at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can also obtain copies of the documents at prescribed rates by writing to the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the Public Reference Room operations by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company posts on its website the charters of the Company’s Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees; Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and any amendments or waivers thereto; and certain corporate governance materials stipulated by SEC or New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) regulations. Please note that the Company’s website is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Information provided on the Company’s website is not part of this report, and is not incorporated by reference unless otherwise specifically referenced as such in this report. The documents are also available in print, free of charge, to any requesting shareholder by contacting the Company’s corporate secretary at its company offices. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Speedway Motorsports, Inc. (the “Company”, “SMI”, “we”, “us”, and “our”) is a leading promoter, marketer and sponsor of motorsports activities in the United States. We own and operate, through our subsidiaries, Atlanta Motor Speedway (“AMS”), Bristol Motor Speedway (“BMS”), Charlotte Motor Speedway (“CMS”), Infineon Raceway (formerly known as Sears Point Raceway) (“IR”), Kentucky Speedway (“KyS”), Las Vegas Motor Speedway (“LVMS”), New Hampshire Motor Speedway (“NHMS”) and Texas Motor Speedway (“TMS”). We also provide souvenir merchandising services, and food, beverage and hospitality catering services through our SMI Properties subsidiaries; provide radio programming, production and distribution through our Performance Racing Network (“PRN”) subsidiary; develop electronic media promotional programming and distribute wholesale and retail racing and other sports-related souvenir merchandise and apparel through The Source International (“TSI”) subsidiary; and manufacture and distribute smaller-scale, modified racing cars and parts through our US Legend Cars International subsidiary (formerly known as 600 Racing) (“US Legend Cars”). Our equally-owned joint venture with International Speedway Corporation (“ISC”), Motorsports Authentics (“MA”), produces and markets licensed motorsports products for principally trackside event souvenir merchandising. We own eight first-class racing facilities in four of the top ten media markets in the United States. References to “our” or “eight” speedways in historical information exclude North Wilkesboro Speedway, Inc. (“NWS”), which we also own and presently has no significant operations. SMI was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1994. In 2009, the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, Inc. (“NASCAR”) NASCAR-sanctioned Craftsman Truck Series was renamed the Camping World Truck Series. Hereafter, the Camping World Truck naming convention is used throughout this document. We currently plan to promote the following racing events in 2011: • thirteen NASCAR-sanctioned Sprint Cup Series (“Sprint Cup”) stock car racing events • ten NASCAR-sanctioned Nationwide Series (“Nationwide”) racing events • nine NASCAR-sanctioned Camping World Truck Series racing events • four NASCAR-sanctioned K&N Pro Series racing events • five Indy Racing League IndyCar Series (“IndyCar”) racing events • six major National Hot Rod Association (“NHRA”) racing events • three World of Outlaws (“WOO”) racing events • one American Motorcyclist Association (“AMA”) racing event • several other races and events RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Listed below are certain developments that have affected or may continue to affect our business. These developments are further discussed in the indicated sections, and elsewhere, within this report: • General factors and current operating trends, including ongoing uncertainty due to weak economic conditions and tight credit and financial markets (discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Near-term Operating Factors”) • NASCAR Sprint Cup race date realignment to Kentucky Speedway beginning in 2011 (discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Near-term Operating Factors, and Capital Expenditures”) • 2011 Credit Facility amendment and restatement, issuance of 6 3/4% Senior Notes due 2019, and tender offer and early redemption of 6 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes previously due 2013 (discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors”, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Future Liquidity and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) • 2011 installation of the world’s largest high-definition video board at Charlotte Motor Speedway in collaboration with Panasonic (discussed in “Operating Strategy” below) • Substantially reduced financial risks from our Motorsports Authentics merchandising joint venture (discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) • Our discontinued oil and gas activities are nearing conclusion (discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 3 Table of Contents GENERAL OVERVIEW Our speedways are strategically positioned in eight premier markets in the United States, including four of the top ten media markets. We have one of the largest total permanent speedway seating capacities, with the highest average number of seats per facility, in the motorsports industry. At December 31, 2010, our total permanent seating capacity of approximately 870,000, with 846 luxury suites, was located at the following facilities: Speedway Location Approx Acreage Length of Primary Speedway (miles) Luxury Suites(1) Permanent Seating(2) Media Market and Ranking Atlanta Motor Speedway Hampton, GA 820 1.5 123 98,000 Atlanta – 8 Bristol Motor Speedway Bristol, TN 670 0.5 196 158,000 Tri-Cities – 91 Charlotte Motor Speedway Concord, NC 1,310 1.5 113 134,000 Charlotte – 23 Infineon Raceway Sonoma, CA 1,600 2.5 27 47,000 (3) San Francisco – 6 Kentucky Speedway Sparta, KY 820 1.5 53 69,000 (4) Cincinnati – 33 Las Vegas Motor Speedway Las Vegas, NV 1,030 1.5 102 131,000 Las Vegas – 42 New Hampshire Motor Speedway Loudon, NH 1,180 1.1 38 96,000 Boston – 7 Texas Motor Speedway Fort Worth, TX 1,490 1.5 194 137,000 Dallas-Fort Worth – 5 846 870,000 (1) Excluding dragway and dirt track suites. (2) Including seats in luxury suites and excluding infield admission, temporary seats, general admission, and dragway and dirt track seats. (3) IR’s permanent seating capacity is supplemented by temporary and other general admission seating arrangements along its 2.52-mile road course. (4) KyS’s permanent seating capacity is currently being significantly increased, where a new annual NASCAR Sprint Cup race event will be held beginning July 2011. We also provide products and services related to motorsports, including (i) radio motorsports programming, production and distribution, (ii) food, beverage and hospitality catering services (through a third-party concessionaire), (iii) electronic media promotional programming, (iv) wholesale and retail racing and other sports-related souvenir merchandise and apparel, and (v) smaller-scale, modified racing cars and parts. We derive revenues principally from the following activities: • licensing of network television, cable television and radio rights to broadcast racing events • sales of tickets to motorsports races and other events held at our speedways • sales of sponsorships and promotions to companies that desire to advertise or sell their products or services surrounding our events • commissions earned on sales of food, beverages and hospitality catering • event sales and commissions from souvenir motorsports merchandise • rental of luxury suites during events and other track facilities In 2010, we derived approximately 84% of our total revenues from NASCAR-sanctioned events. We also derived revenue from IndyCar, NHRA, WOO, ARCA and other racing series events, from certain SMI Properties and TSI non-event merchandising operations, US Legend Cars, The Speedway Clubs at CMS and TMS, Oil-Chem, and Racing Country USA. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these businesses and activities. Eight-year NASCAR Broadcasting and Multi-year Ancillary Rights Agreements – Broadcasting revenues continue to be a significant long-term revenue source for our core business. A substantial portion of our profit in recent years has resulted from television revenues received from NASCAR contracts with various television networks. The NASCAR domestic television broadcast rights agreements are combined eight-year agreements with FOX, ABC/ESPN, TNT and SPEED Channel for all NASCAR Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck Series events for 2008 through 2014. NASCAR announced these agreements have an approximate $4.5 billion contract period value, representing approximately $560 million in gross average annual rights fees for the industry and a 40% increase over the former contract annual average of $400 million. This eight-year NASCAR broadcasting rights agreement provides us with increases in annual contracted revenues through 2014 averaging 3% per year. Our 2010 NASCAR broadcasting revenues totaled approximately $179 million and, based on the current race schedule, these contracted revenues for 2011 are expected to be approximately $185 million. Management believes this long-term contracted revenue source helps significantly solidify our financial strength, earnings and cash flows. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 4 Table of Contents In 2001, an ancillary rights package for NASCAR.com, NASCAR Radio, international and other broadcasting, NASCAR Images, SportsVision, FanScan, specialty pay-per-view telecasts, and other media content distribution was reached with us, NASCAR and others in the motorsports industry. This NASCAR industry-wide total ancillary rights package is scheduled to expire in 2013. Management believes the broadcast and ancillary rights contracts have long-term strategic benefits. For instance, cable broadcasters can support a higher investment through subscriber fees not available to networks, which is resulting in increased rights fees for sports properties. The retention of both cable and network broadcasters should drive increased fan and media awareness for all three NASCAR racing series, and help increase long-term attendance and corporate marketing appeal. Management believes ESPN’s involvement can benefit the Nationwide Series from the improved continuity of its season-long presence on ESPN. Also, motorsports in general should benefit from increased ancillary programming and nightly and weekly NASCAR-branded programming and promotions, similar to what ESPN provides for other major sports. NASCAR ratings can impact attendance at our events and sponsorship opportunities. Our Long-term, Multi-year Contracted Revenues Are Significant – Much of our total revenue is generated under long-term, multi-year contracts, including the eight-year NASCAR television broadcast agreement. Many of our NASCAR Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck event sponsorships for the 2011 racing season, and for years beyond 2011, are already sold. Also, we have contracted revenues under several long-term operating leases for various office, warehouse and industrial park space to various entities largely involved in motorsports. We believe the attractive demographics surrounding motorsports and our premier markets, where we own first class facilities, continue to provide substantial opportunities for increasing our number of longer-term sponsorship partners and commitments. We also believe the substantial total revenue generated under our long-term contracts, such as those described above, helps stabilize our financial resilience and profitability during difficult economic conditions. Our Revenues Are More Diversified – We have a diversified revenue stream both with respect to our revenue sources and geography. In 1998, admission revenues accounted for 47% of our total revenues, while NASCAR broadcasting revenues represented only 9% of our total revenues. Since then, we have successfully shifted to a more stable revenue base by increasing our contracted NASCAR broadcasting revenue. In 2010, admissions and NASCAR broadcasting revenues accounted for 28% and 36% of our total revenues, respectively. Also, our eight speedway facilities are strategically positioned in the West, Northeast, Southeast, Midwest and Southwest United States. We believe this diversification better insulates our revenues and profitability from negative economic and geopolitical conditions, as well as unfavorable weather conditions in any one particular market or region of the country. INDUSTRY OVERVIEW NASCAR’s Sprint Cup Series is currently the most popular form of motorsports in the United States. The NASCAR racing season runs for 10 months, visiting 21 states across the country, and frequently attracts more than 100,000 attendees at each Sprint Cup Series racing event. Races are generally heavily promoted, with a number of supporting weekend events surrounding the main event, for a total weekend experience. In 2010, NASCAR sanctioned 98 Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck Series races, including the “Chase for the Championship”, a ten race “playoff” to determine the NASCAR Sprint Cup Champion. NASCAR races are the second highest rated regular season televised sport and are broadcast weekly in more than 20 languages and 150 countries around the world. In 2010, NASCAR Sprint Cup Series events included more of the top 20 highest attended sporting events in the United States than any other sport, and can draw larger crowds than a Super Bowl, a NBA Finals game, and a World Series game combined. Corporate interest in the sport has been significantly driven by the attractive demographics of stock car and other motorsports racing fans. Many Fortune 500 companies choose NASCAR-sanctioned events as part of their marketing strategy and are involved in all aspects of the industry, through direct sponsorship of racing teams, official status designations and event entitlement rights. According to the 2010 release of Scarborough Research, 48% of NASCAR fans are between the ages of 18 and 44, 55% earn over $50,000 annually, 41% have children under the age of 18, 38% are female, and one out of five is a minority. In addition, brand loyalty (as measured by fan usage of sponsors’ products) is the highest of any nationally televised major league sport, and NASCAR fans are believed to be three times as likely to purchase NASCAR sponsors’ products and services than non-fans. In 2010, the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series continued its position as the number two sport on television, and was the number one or two sporting event on television 20 out of 36 event weekends. All NASCAR Sprint Cup, Nationwide, and Camping World Truck, IndyCar, and major NHRA events, as well as other events promoted by us, are currently televised nationally. The NASCAR Nationwide Series was the second, and the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series was the third, highest rated motorsports series Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents on television. The 2011 season marks the fifth year of NASCAR’s domestic television rights agreement with FOX, TNT, ABC and ESPN. We believe the television broadcasting agreement provides substantial opportunities for further increasing the popularity of NASCAR racing through exposure to a wide demographic audience. We believe the NASCAR broadcasting rights packages are significantly increasing media intensity, while expanding sponsorship, merchandising and other marketing opportunities. We also believe the ancillary rights package for internet, specialty pay-per-view, foreign distribution and other international television broadcasting media provides substantial opportunities for intensifying corporate and fan interest and creating increased demand for NASCAR racing and related merchandising in foreign, e-commerce and other untapped markets. In 2010 and future seasons, as well as in past years, NASCAR has made, and will likely continue making, refinements to racing rules, technical changes and other adjustments as a sanctioning body to enhance on-track racing competition and excitement and generate additional fan interest. Such refinements include, among others, “double-file restarts”, changing from rear wings to spoilers on certain “Car of Tomorrow” models, earlier and consistent race start times, new qualifying procedures, multiple attempts at finishing races under the “green flag”, and relaxing on-track rules and regulations. Also, NASCAR continues to refine the Sprint Cup Series championship points format which determines competitors’ eligibility for the Chase for the Championship. For example, NASCAR simplified the points system and introduced “wild-card” eligibility in 2011, attempting to place greater emphasis on winning races. NASCAR also changed the rules of participation so that race drivers can now compete for championship points in only one of NASCAR’s Sprint Cup, Nationwide or Camping World Series. These changes give additional points and benefits for winning races and are intended to make racing more competitive during the entire season. We believe the attractiveness of the demographics surrounding motorsports, and SMI’s first-class facilities in premier geographic markets, is illustrated by our history of large numbers of longer-term sponsorship partners and commitments. These long-term agreements illustrate the broad spectrum of major national corporate sponsorship interest, and the long-term confidence and marketing value being placed in our leading-edge facilities in premium markets. Those factors, along with high media intensity and enhanced on-track competition, are expected to drive increases in fan appeal and the long-term value of sponsorship and other marketing rights. Also, the introduction of female race drivers, such as Danica Patrick into the Nationwide Series, represents one of the many sizeable and largely untapped demographics in NASCAR racing. We believe these, as well as other ongoing industry developments, are favorable, long-term industry changes that provide us with many marketing and future growth opportunities. Widely recognized liquor distillers such as Diageo, branches of the military such as the National Guard, and various wine companies have been financially involved and sponsors in NASCAR racing. We believe this is another positive indication of the wide marketing appeal of NASCAR motorsports, providing substantial marketing opportunities for us and NASCAR. These, and dynamics such as Toyota entering NASCAR racing, the untapped potential of expanding demographics, motorsports merchandising opportunities, and the prospects for ongoing improvements in the format of NASCAR racing, provide us with many opportunities for future growth. OPERATING STRATEGY Our operating strategy is to increase revenues and profitability through the promotion and production of racing and related events at modern facilities, which serves to enhance customer loyalty, and to market and distribute racing and other sports-related souvenir, apparel and other merchandise. We market our scheduled events throughout the year both regionally and nationally using extensive and innovative marketing activities. We believe our objectives of growing revenues and profitability can be achieved by increasing attendance, broadcasting, sponsorship and other revenues at existing facilities, and by expanding our promotional and marketing expertise to take advantage of opportunities in attractive existing and new markets. In particular, we are concentrating on further developing long-term contracted revenue streams, which are less susceptible to weather and economic conditions. The key components of this strategy are described below. Commitment to Quality and Customer Satisfaction, and Expansion and Improvement of Existing Facilities – Since the 1970’s, we have embarked upon a series of capital improvements to continually improve the race experience enjoyed by our fans, sponsors, team owners and drivers, media and others attending and involved in racing and other motorsports activities that we conduct. Over many years, we have invested significant capital in improving and expanding our facilities. We plan to continue modernizing and making other significant improvements at our speedways as further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Expenditures”. As of December 31, 2010, our total permanent speedway seating capacity approximated 870,000, including 846 luxury suites. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 6 Table of Contents Some of our more significant capital improvements in recent years include: • reconstructing, reprofiling and resurfacing track surfaces at our speedway facilities • construction and expansion of additional premium, permanent grandstand seating • modernized and expanded camping areas • high-end motor coach parking areas at superspeedways • new luxury suites, club-style seating areas and food courts • first-class trackside dining and entertainment facilities • progressive media centers and infield garage areas and other facilities • wider concourses, modern concession and restroom facilities, and expanded pedestrian infrastructure • reconfigured and expanded parking areas and onsite roadways, and improved traffic patterns to improve traffic flow Over many years, we significantly increased the number of permanent grandstand seats and luxury suites, featuring outstanding views, new stadium-style terrace sections, convenient elevator access, popular food courts and unique mezzanine level souvenir, concessions and restroom facilities for enhanced spectator enjoyment, convenience and accessibility. From 1996 through 2010, we reconfigured many of our main entranceways and traffic patterns, expanded on-site roads and increased available parking to ease congestion and improve traffic flow. Lighting is installed at all SMI speedways, except IR and NHMS, so that we can offer nighttime racing. We also installed “SAFER” crash walls at all SMI speedways, except IR, to help improve the safety of race drivers and others using our facilities. The banking of several of our speedways has been reprofiled and resurfaced to offer our fans the increased excitement inherent in high-bank racing. We continue to make many other facility improvements, all consistent with our commitment to quality and customer satisfaction. We have modernized our gift shops to increase fan appeal and expand our marketing opportunities, and expanded our camping and RV facilities to meet the growing demand from fans who seek that entertainment experience surrounding our events. We have built extensive infield media centers, garage and entertainment facilities with leading-edge technology infrastructure and access for increased appeal to media content providers, sports journalists, racing team owners and drivers, race fans and others involved in motorsports. Our leading-edge facilities also feature new scoreboards, underground pedestrian tunnels, and hillside terrace seats, among many other modernizing improvements. Other customer service enhancements include new entertainment, administrative and other marketing facilities as part of our ongoing efforts to attract fans, corporate and other clientele, and provide enhanced facility comfort and entertainment value for the benefit of our spectators. We have built or reconstructed our dragstrips at BMS, CMS, IR and LVMS, which feature modern, innovative facilities with permanent grandstand seating, luxury suites and extensive fan amenities. In 2008, we opened our revolutionary zMAX Dragway at Charlotte Motor Speedway, where one of the largest crowds in NHRA history was hosted during its inaugural NHRA Nationals weekend. This leading edge facility features a unique “four lane” racing configuration, with almost 30,000 premium permanent seats, 31 luxury suites and upscale food and beverage concession areas. We believe the zMAX Dragway is currently the finest facility in drag racing, and appeals to an expanding customer base of fans, racing competitors, and advertisers. In 2009, we completed construction of high-end exclusive RV parking and campground areas at CMS and TMS, featuring upscale amenities and outstanding views of the entire superspeedways. We expanded and modernized infield hospitality areas at NHMS, improving sightlines and enhancing the event experience of our corporate and other marketing customers. In 2010, we replaced certain grandstand seating along AMS’s and CMS’s superspeedway front-stretch with new, wider premium permanent seating. We also expanded and modernized BMS’s infield, race team garage and media center areas. We are modernizing and expanding luxury suites, concessions, hospitality, camping and other areas, and reconfiguring onsite roads and expanding available parking for our fans, at our new KyS facility. Other planned fan amenities at KyS include high-end permanent seating, new camper showers, and a new modern ticket office and gift shop. See Item 2 “Properties” for additional information on capital improvements at each of our speedways. We have a long-term food and beverage management agreement with Levy Premium Foodservice Limited Partnership (“Levy”). Levy has exclusive rights to provide on-site food, beverage, and hospitality catering services for essentially all events and operations at our speedways and certain outside venues. Levy has notified us they intend to renew the contract for an additional ten-year period through 2021. We believe a consolidated food and beverage services agreement enables us to provide better Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents products and expanded services to our customers, enhancing their overall entertainment experience, while allowing us to achieve substantial operating efficiencies. In addition, such a long-term alliance can facilitate the marketing of luxury suites, hospitality and other high-end venues to corporate and other clientele desiring premium-quality menu choices and service. Innovative Marketing and Promotional Efforts – We believe it is important to market our scheduled events throughout the year, both regionally and nationally. In addition to innovative television, radio, newspaper, trade publication and other promotions, we market our events and services by: • offering tours of our facilities • providing satellite links for media outlets • internet sites offering “view-from-your-seat” capabilities • marketing on popular social media websites, and VIP fan clubs and facility access • marketing on emerging internet sites with motorsports news and entertainment • proprietary radio network promotions • conducting direct mail campaigns and e-mail “blasts” • staging pre-race promotional activities such as live music, military aircraft flyovers and displays, skydivers and daredevil stunts Our marketing program also includes soliciting prospective event sponsors. Sponsorship provisions for a typical NASCAR-sanctioned event include luxury suite rentals, block ticket sales and company-catered hospitality, as well as souvenir race program and track signage advertising. Our innovative marketing is exemplified by progressive programs such as offering Preferred Seat Licenses at TMS, and now at KyS, and obtaining the industry’s first facility naming rights agreement. Also, our long-term Levy agreement offers corporate and other clientele premium food, beverage and catering services, and facilitates the marketing of luxury suites and hospitality functions at our speedways. As another innovative, industry-leading first, we are collaborating with Panasonic to install the world’s largest high-definition video board at CMS. We believe this leading edge technology will transform the race experience for our fans, and help attract younger and new fans, providing viewing entertainment that cannot be duplicated at home or other venues. We also believe the high visibility as the world’s largest high-definition video board, along with accompanying media attention, provides us and our current and prospective corporate marketing partners with new and long-term promotional opportunities. Also in 2011, as part of a new “green” initiative, we are collaborating with Panasonic to install a large number of solar panels and a large, solar-powered LED display board at IR. The installation is anticipated to provide over 40% of IR’s overall energy needs. The modern media centers at BMS, CMS and LVMS have leading-edge technology infrastructure and access for increased appeal to media content providers, sports journalists, racing team owners and drivers and others involved in motorsports. The “Neon Garage” built at LVMS is one of the most modern and extensive infield media centers, garage and fan-zone entertainment facilities in motorsports. LVMS’s “Neon Garage” continues to receive favorable media attention and is a desirable focal place for racing drivers, team owners and others involved in motorsports during major racing events. In recent years, BMS opened a modern expansive gift shop and ticket office adjoining new entertainment, administrative and other marketing facilities that attracts and entertains fans and corporate clientele. These customer service enhancements are part of our ongoing efforts to attract fans, corporate and other clientele, and provide enhanced facility comfort and entertainment value for the benefit of our spectators. Our facilities include The Speedway Club at CMS and The Speedway Club at TMS, both featuring exclusive dining and entertainment facilities and executive offices adjoining the main grandstands and overlooking the superspeedways. These VIP clubs are open year-round and contain first-class restaurant and entertainment facilities, offering top quality catering and corporate meeting accommodations, and TMS includes a health-fitness membership club. SMI has constructed 46 trackside condominiums at AMS and 76 condominiums at TMS, of which 44 and 71, respectively, have been sold as of December 31, 2010. We also built and sold 52 trackside condominiums at CMS in the 1980’s and early 1990’s. Many are used by team owners and drivers. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 8 Table of Contents Maximization of Media Exposure and Enhancement of Broadcast and Sponsorship Revenues – We are strategically positioned with eight first-class speedway facilities in the Midwest, Northeast, Southeast, Southwest and Western United States, including four of the nation’s top-10 metropolitan markets, with combined seating exceeding 870,000 as of December 31, 2010. We believe owning first-class facilities in premium markets offers long-term, highly attractive media markets. We plan to increase the marketing exposure of our current Sprint Cup, Nationwide, Camping World Truck, IndyCar, NHRA, and WOO racing events. We believe the high media attention focused on motorsports provides our sponsors and other corporate marketing partners with outstanding long-term promotional opportunities. We have speedway facilities strategically positioned in Dallas-Fort Worth, Las Vegas and San Francisco, providing us with critical mass west of the Mississippi River that enhances our overall operations, as well as broadcast and sponsorship opportunities. Our Atlanta, Bristol and Charlotte Motor Speedways are located in the Southeast, which is considered the “heart” of racing. Our purchase of NHMS strategically positions us in the northeastern United States, about one hour north of Boston, in one of the largest media markets in North America. Also, NHMS is the largest sports facility in New England and, according to the latest census numbers, there are more than 18 million people within 200 miles of the speedway. The venue is easily accessible via interstate highways from all metro areas in the northeastern United States and eastern Canada. KyS, which opened in 2000, is located approximately one-half hour south of Cincinnati, Ohio, and expands our motorsports business into a desirable, largely untapped market. We intend to capitalize on these top-market entertainment venues to further grow our business, the sport of NASCAR and other racing series. We also seek to increase the visibility of our racing events and facilities through local and regional media interaction. For example, each January we sponsor a four-day media tour at CMS, and a similar one-day tour at TMS, to promote the upcoming Sprint Cup season. This event features Sprint Cup drivers and attracts media personnel representing television networks and stations from throughout the United States and around the world. As another example, SMI and top NASCAR drivers have teamed up to conduct “Fan Forums” that are produced by our Performance Racing Network. This fan appeal program includes question-and-answer sessions with NASCAR’s top drivers during each NASCAR Sprint Cup race weekend at most of our speedways. We believe this program appeals to our fans, and creates additional interest and excitement between fans, drivers and team owners. From time to time, we sell advertising, fixed billboards and other promotional space on wide areas of backstretch and diminished visibility seating depending on ticket demand for certain events. Management believes this is desirable prime advertising space because those areas are frequently displayed during television broadcasts, in photos and are viewable by large numbers of fans attending our speedways. Further Development of SMI Properties, Performance Racing Network and US Legend Cars Businesses – Our SMI Properties subsidiaries provide event and non-event souvenir merchandising services, event food, beverage, hospitality and catering services through the Levy arrangement, as described below, and other ancillary support services to all SMI facilities and other outside sports-related venues. SMI Properties is attempting to enhance souvenir and other merchandise sales through new marketing arrangements, including sales at non-SMI facilities and other outside venues. Notwithstanding recent operating challenges of MA and TSI, which develops and uses electronic media promotional programming to merchandise and distribute racing and other sports-related souvenir merchandise, we believe opportunities continue to exist for merchandising of motorsports and non-motorsports products through TSI. Also, SMI Trackside provides event souvenir merchandising services at our speedways and other NASCAR third-party speedway venues. We intend to expand product offerings, enhance souvenir and merchandise sales through new marketing arrangements, and to increase sales at non-SMI facilities and other outside venues. We plan to broadcast most of our NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as many other events, at each of our speedways over our proprietary Performance Racing Network in 2011. PRN is syndicated nationwide to more than 550 radio stations. Along with broadcasting our racing events, PRN produces innovative daily and weekly racing-oriented programs throughout the NASCAR season. We also own Racing Country USA, our national country music and NASCAR-themed radio show Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents syndicated to approximately 285 affiliates nationwide. The combination of PRN’s and Racing Country USA’s national syndication networks, with Sirius XM Satellite Radio and NASCAR.com, offers sponsors a very powerful and expansive promotional network. We plan to carry additional programming over PRN and Racing Country USA in 2011. In 2010, 600 Racing was rebranded as US Legend Cars International and continued to develop new domestic and overseas markets for distribution of their race cars and parts, including adding distributors in South Korea and Australia to its network. We developed and are the official sanctioning body of the Legends Circuit. Introduced in 1992, US Legend Cars manufactures and sells the cars and parts used in Legends Circuit racing events. Legends Cars are 5/8-scale versions of the modified classic sedans and coupes driven by legendary early NASCAR racers, and are designed primarily to race on “short” tracks of 3/8-mile or less. In 1997, as an extension of the Legends Car concept, US Legend Cars released a new “Bandolero” line of smaller, lower-priced, entry level stock cars which appeals to younger racing enthusiasts. In 2000, US Legend Cars released a new faster “Thunder Roadster” race car modeled after older-style roadsters that competed in past Indianapolis 500’s in the early 1960’s. In 2010, US Legend Cars, in collaboration with Ray Evernham Enterprises, a former NASCAR Sprint Cup crew chief and team owner, announced plans to develop the Legend Dirt Modified race car. The Legend Dirt Modified will be a purpose-built dirt race car with more performance, while maintaining affordability. The Legend Dirt Modified is expected to further expand the US Legend Cars market to top dirt tracks around the country. Cars and parts are currently marketed and sold through approximately 50 distributors conducting business throughout the United States, and in Canada, Russia, South Korea, Australia, South America, Africa and Europe. The Legends Car, the Bandolero, and the Thunder Roadster (collectively referred to as “US Legend Cars” or “Legends Cars”) are not designed for general road use. Revenues from this business totaled $9.8 million in 2010. We believe the Legends Car is one of only a few complete race cars manufactured in the United States for a retail price of less than $13,000, and is an affordable entry into racing for enthusiasts who otherwise could not race on an organized circuit. The Legends Circuit, which includes the Legends Car, the Bandolero, the Thunder Roadster, and the Legends Dirt Modified race car once developed, held approximately 2,500 sanctioned races at over 175 different tracks in 2010, making it one of the most active short track racing divisions in motorsports. In addition, the Legends Circuit is the third largest oval short track auto racing sanctioning body in terms of membership behind NASCAR and International Motor Contest Association (“IMCA”). Sanctioned Legends Car races are currently conducted at several of our speedways. We plan to continue broadening the Legends Circuit, increasing the number of sanctioned races and tracks at which races are held. In 2010, Charlotte Motor Speedway hosted a one-of-a-kind, grassroots Legends Circuit event called the “Legends Million”. The event featured a total purse of $1.0 million with the A-Main winner taking home an unprecedented $250,000. Many NASCAR and other racing drivers participated which, along with other promotional activities, generated substantial media attention and other favorable publicity for US Legend Cars International. Increased Daily Usage of Existing Facilities – We constantly seek revenue-producing uses for our speedway facilities on days not committed to racing events. Such other uses include driving schools, car and truck shows, Auto Fairs, free-style motocross and monster truck events, vehicle testing, settings for television commercials, concerts, holiday season festivities, print advertisements and motion pictures. We host several NHRA bracket racing events throughout the year at our modern BMS, IR, CMS and LVMS dragways, and host a summer Legends Car Series at several of our speedways. AMS also hosts several bracket drag racing events throughout the year. With more than twelve different track configurations at LVMS, including a 2.5-mile road course, 1/4-mile dragstrip, 1/8-mile dragstrip, 1/2-mile clay oval, 3/8-mile paved oval and several other race courses, we plan to continue capitalizing on LVMS’s top market entertainment value to further grow the speedway and other racing series, and to promote new expanded venues. In addition, our larger road courses at AMS, CMS, LVMS, NHMS and TMS are being rented for various activities such as driving schools, series racing and vehicle testing. CMS and TMS operate 4/10-mile, modern, lighted, dirt track facilities where nationally-televised events such as WOO Series, as well as AMA, have been held. Similar other racing events are held annually. Other examples of increased usage include concerts featuring popular bands such as Foreigner and Kansas at NHMS and The Doobie Brothers, REO Speedwagon, Willie Nelson and ZZ Top at TMS, exciting acts such as Robbie Knievel at TMS, the widely popular Disney movie “Cars” premiere at CMS, the first ever “Carolina Christmas,” a 2.5-mile drive-through Christmas light park and village located on the speedway and infield of CMS to celebrate the 2010 holiday season, large track rentals used by car manufacturers for rallies and other corporate functions at LVMS, and AMS’s and TMS’s hosting of Harley-Davidson’s 100th Anniversary Celebrations with top-name musical and family Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 10 Table of Contents entertainment. Also, we conduct BMS’s holiday season “Speedway In Lights” which is prominent in that region, and CMS’s annual auto fair shows and TMS’s spring Pate Swap Meets which remain widely popular. We are also working to schedule music concerts at certain facilities. In 2010, NHMS conducted it first snowmobile racing event, and CMS hosted an inaugural second annual NHRA-sanctioned Nationals racing event at its unique, four-lane dragway. In 2011, we plan to host two new IndyCar Series racing events at LVMS and NHMS. Also, CMS is hosting a Cirque Du Soleil entertainment show in March 2011. Acquisition and Development of Additional Motorsports Facilities – We also consider growth by acquisition and development of motorsports facilities as appropriate opportunities arise. We acquired Bristol Motor Speedway and Infineon Raceway in 1996, Las Vegas Motor Speedway in 1998, and New Hampshire Motor Speedway in 2008. We also acquired Kentucky Speedway in 2008 where one annual NASCAR Sprint Cup Series racing event is being held beginning in 2011. In 1997, we completed construction of Texas Motor Speedway. In 2004, we acquired North Carolina Speedway, including race event sanctioning and renewal agreements under which an additional NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing event are conducted each year at TMS. We continually attempt to locate, acquire, develop and operate venues that we believe are underdeveloped or underutilized, and to capitalize on markets where sponsorship pricing and television rights are more lucrative. Development of Ancillary Businesses Through Acquisitions, Joint Ventures or Similar Type Arrangements – We look for opportunities to grow our existing, or identify new, ancillary businesses through acquisitions, joint ventures or similar arrangements. OPERATIONS Our operations consist principally of motorsports racing and related events, as well as ancillary businesses described herein and in “Non-Event Motorsports Related Merchandise Revenue”, “Non-Motorsports Merchandise Revenue”, and “Other Revenue” below. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Racing and Related Events NASCAR-sanctioned races are held annually at each of our speedways. The following are summaries of racing events scheduled in 2011 at each speedway. • AMS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned races listed below, AMS is scheduled to hold one NASCAR Camping World Truck Series race, as well as several other races and events. Date Event Circuit September 3 “Great Clips 300” Nationwide September 4 “Labor Day Classic 500” Sprint Cup • BMS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned races listed below, BMS is scheduled to hold one NASCAR Camping World Truck Series race and one NHRA Nationals event, as well as several other races and events. Date Event Circuit March 19 “Scotts EZ Seed 300” Nationwide March 20 “Jeff Byrd 500 Presented by Food City” Sprint Cup August 26 “Food City 250” Nationwide August 27 “IRWIN Tools Night Race” Sprint Cup • CMS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned races listed below, CMS is scheduled to hold one NASCAR Camping World Truck Series race, two NHRA Nationals events and two WOO events, as well as several other races and events. Date Event Circuit May 21 “NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race” Sprint Cup (all-star race) May 28 “TopGear 300” Nationwide May 29 “Coca-Cola 600” Sprint Cup October 14 “Dollar General 300” Nationwide October 15 “Bank of America 500” Sprint Cup Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents • IR. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned race listed below, IR is scheduled to hold one IndyCar race, one NHRA Nationals event, one NASCAR K&N Pro Series West race, one AMA, and several Sports Car Club of America and other racing events. Date Event Circuit June 26 “Toyota/Save Mart 350” Sprint Cup • KyS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned race listed below, KyS is scheduled to hold two NASCAR Camping World Truck Series races and one IndyCar race, as well as several other races and events. Date Event Circuit July 8 “Kentucky 300” Nationwide July 9 “Quaker State 400” Sprint Cup • LVMS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned races listed below, LVMS is scheduled to hold one NASCAR Camping World Truck Series race, one IndyCar race, two NHRA Nationals events, one NASCAR K&N Pro Series West race and one WOO event, as well as several other races and events. Date Event Circuit March 5 (held) “Sam’s Town 300” Nationwide March 6 (held) “Kobalt Tools 400” Sprint Cup • NHMS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned races listed below, NHMS is scheduled to hold one NASCAR Camping World Truck Series race, one IndyCar race, two NASCAR K&N Pro Series East races, and several Sports Car Club of America and other races and events. Date Event Circuit July 16 “New England 200” Nationwide June 17 “LENOX Industrial Tools 301” Sprint Cup September 25 “SYLVANIA 300” Sprint Cup • TMS. In addition to the major NASCAR-sanctioned races listed below, TMS is scheduled to hold two NASCAR Camping World Truck Series races, one IndyCar race, and several Sports Car Club of America and other races and events. Date Event Circuit April 8 “O’Reilly Auto Parts 300” Nationwide April 9 “Samsung Mobile 500” Sprint Cup November 5 “O’Reilly Auto Parts Challenge” Nationwide November 6 “AAA Texas 500” Sprint Cup The following table shows the composition of selected revenues for the three years ended December 31, 2010 (in thousands): 2010 2009 2008 Admissions $ 139,125 28 % $ 163,087 30 % $ 188,036 31 % NASCAR broadcasting 178,722 36 % 173,803 32 % 168,159 28 % Sponsorships 63,062 12 % 75,476 14 % 81,317 13 % Other event related 80,882 16 % 87,588 16 % 112,629 18 % Motorsports event and non-event, andnon-motorsports, related merchandise 32,930 7 % 42,562 7 % 51,624 8 % Other 7,522 1 % 8,006 1 % 9,228 2 % Total revenue $ 502,243 100 % $ 550,522 100 % $ 610,993 100 % Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 12 Table of Contents Admissions – Our admissions revenues includes ticket sales for all Company events at a wide range of prices. In general, we establish ticket prices based on spectator demand, economic conditions and, at times, cost of living increases. We promote outdoor motorsports events, and weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets. Although we sell many tickets well in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly because we promote a limited number of premier events. NASCAR Broadcasting Revenue – We negotiate annual contracts with NASCAR for domestic television station and network broadcast coverage of all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events. NASCAR broadcasting revenue consists of rights fees obtained for domestic television broadcasts of NASCAR-sanctioned events held at our speedways. Sponsorship Revenue – Our revenue from corporate sponsorships is received in accordance with negotiated contracts. Sponsors and the terms of sponsorships change from time to time. Sponsorships generally consist of event, official and facility naming rights agreements. We have sponsorship contracts with many major manufacturing and consumer products companies and brands. Other considerations range from “Official” sponsorship designations at our speedways to exclusive advertising and promotional rights in various sponsor product categories. None of our individual sponsorship or naming rights contracts annually exceeded 5% of total revenues in 2010. Other Event Related Revenue – We derive event related revenue from various marketing agreements for onsite advertising, hospitality and other promotion related activities. Our marketing agreements sometimes include multiple specified elements such as sponsorships, tickets, hospitality, suites or onsite advertising in varying combinations for one or more events or contract periods, although there is typically a predominant element. Our marketing agreements can be event, speedway or period specific, or pertain to multiple events, speedways or years. We derive event related revenue from commissioned food, beverage and souvenir sales during racing and non-racing events and from fees paid for speedway catered “hospitality” receptions and private parties. Food, beverages and souvenirs are also sold to individual, group, corporate and other customers primarily in concession areas located on or near speedway concourses and other areas surrounding our speedway facilities, and in luxury suites, club-style seating and food court areas located within the speedway facilities. We also derive revenue from luxury suite and track rentals, driving schools, parking and other event and speedway related activities. As of December 31, 2010, our speedways had a total of approximately 846 luxury suites available for leasing to corporate customers or others. CMS has also constructed 40 open-air boxes, each containing 32 seats, which are rented to corporate customers or others. Our speedways and related facilities are frequently leased to others for use in driving schools, testing, research and development of race cars and racing products, settings for commercials and motion pictures, and other outdoor events. In 2011, we plan to broadcast most of our NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series races over our proprietary Performance Racing Network, which also sponsors four weekly racing-oriented programs throughout the NASCAR season. We derive event related revenue from the sale of commercial time on PRN, which is syndicated nationwide to more than 550 radio stations. We have negotiated contracts with NASCAR for ancillary broadcasts associated with NASCAR.com, NASCAR Radio, international and other media. None of our individual other event related contracts annually exceeded 5% of total revenues in 2010. Motorsports Event Related Merchandise Revenue – We derive event related revenue from sales of owned motorsports related souvenir merchandise during racing and non-racing events and in our speedway gift shops throughout the year. Souvenir merchandise is sold primarily in concession areas located on or near speedway concourses and other areas surrounding our speedway facilities to individual, group, corporate and other customers. Motorsports event related merchandise revenue consists principally of revenues from SMI Properties and SMI Trackside who provide event souvenir merchandising for our speedways and third-party speedways. SMI Trackside is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SMI Properties. Non-Event Motorsports Related Merchandise Revenue – We derive other operating revenue from certain SMI Properties, TSI, and Legend Cars operations. Non-Motorsports Merchandise Revenue – We derive other operating revenue from Oil-Chem, which produces an environmentally-friendly micro-lubricant. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 13 Table of Contents Other Revenue – We derive other operating revenue from The Speedway Club at CMS and The Texas Motor Speedway Club (together the “Speedway Clubs”) dining and entertainment facilities located at the respective speedways, which serve individual, group, corporate and other clientele. We also derive other operating revenue from leasing of IR’s industrial park to individuals, corporate and other customers, including race teams and driving schools, from leasing of office towers located at several of our speedways to motorsports and non-motorsports associated corporate and other customers, and from the sanctioning of US Legend Cars circuit races. COMPETITION We are the leading motorsports promoter in the local and regional markets served by our eight speedways, and compete regionally and nationally with other speedway owners, including ISC, to sponsor events, especially Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series events, and to a lesser extent, other NASCAR, IndyCar, NHRA and WOO sanctioned events. We compete for spectator interest with all forms of professional and amateur spring, summer and fall sports, and with a wide range of other available entertainment and recreational activities, conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Dallas-Fort Worth, Las Vegas, Lexington/Louisville/Cincinnati, and San Francisco, and regionally and nationally. These competing events or activities may be held on the same days as our events. We also compete with improving and expanding media coverage and content by network and cable broadcasters, particularly for Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, along with the ongoing improvements in high-definition television technology. Successful speedway operations require significant capital investments for new speedway construction, marketing, promotional and operational expertise, and license agreements with NASCAR and other sanctioning bodies. Industry competitors are actively pursuing internal growth and industry consolidation due to the following factors: • high operating margins • popular and accessible drivers • strong fan brand loyalty • a wide demographic reach • high appeal to corporate sponsors • rising broadcast revenues WEATHER, SEASONALITY AND QUARTERLY RESULTS We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, among other things. For additional information, see Item 1A “Risk Factor – Bad weather adversely affects the profitability of our motorsports events and postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us”. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information on seasonality and quarterly results. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 791 full-time and 327 part-time employees. We hire temporary employees and use volunteers to assist during periods of peak attendance at our events. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We believe we enjoy a good relationship with our employees. INSURANCE We maintain property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with insurers we believe to be financially sound. Our insurance policies generally cover accidents that may occur at our speedways, subject to ordinary course deductibles, policy limits and exceptions. As further described below in “Risk Factors”, we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedway and other properties, and motorsports events and other business risks. We believe our insurance levels are sufficient for our needs and consistent with insurance maintained by similar companies. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We have federally registered trademark and/or service mark rights in “Speedway Motorsports,” “Atlanta Motor Speedway,” “AutoFair,” “AvBlend,” “Bluegrass Club,” “Bristol Motor Speedway,” “Charlotte Motor Speedway,” “Kentucky Club,” “Kentucky Speedway,” “Las Vegas Motor Speedway,” “New Hampshire Motor Speedway,” “Sears Point Raceway,” “Thunder Valley Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 14 Table of Contents Nationals,” “Texas Motor Speedway,” “TMS,” “Legends Cars,” “Bandolero,” “Atomic Oil,” “WBL,” “Pour A New Engine Into Your Car,” “It Soaks Into Metal,” “Linkite,” “Lenckite,” “Micro-Lubricant,” “zMAX,” “Motorsports by Mail,” “The Speedway Club,” “Top the Cops,” “Diesel 40 – The Engine Conditioner,” “Diesel 60 – The Fuel Conditioner,” “Diesel 90 – The Gear And Accessory Conditioner,” “Fans First”, “The Great American Speedway!,” “Radio Without a Restrictor Plate,” “Seal of Champions Speedway Motorsports, Inc.,” “Speedway World,” “The Official Seal of Racing,” “Lug Nut,” “Sparky,” “Live Free & Race!”, “zMAX Dragway” and our corporate logos. Federal trademark and/or service mark registrations are pending with respect to “Let the Troops Race,” “Fan Friendly,” “Think Outside The Oval,” “U.S. Legend Cars International,” and “Victory Lane Club”. We own state trademark and/or service mark registrations for “Atlanta Motor Speedway” (Georgia), “AMS” (Georgia), “Texas Motor Speedway” (Texas) and “TMS” (Texas). We have registered trademark rights in the “zMAX” trademark in Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore and the European Union, registered trademark and service mark rights in the “Legends Cars” mark in the European Union and Canada, and registered service mark rights in the “Motorsports by Mail” mark in Japan. We also have six patents related to our Legends Car, Bandolero Car and Thunder Roadster design and technology. Our policy is to protect our intellectual property rights zealously, including use of litigation, to protect their proprietary value in sale and market recognition. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around CMS’s property for many years. Landfilling of general categories of municipal solid waste on the CMS property ceased in 1992. However, there is one landfill at CMS currently being permitted to receive inert debris and waste from land clearing activities (“LCID” landfill), and one LCID landfill that was closed in 1999. Two other LCID landfills on the CMS property were closed in 1994. CMS intends to allow similar LCID landfills to be operated on the CMS property in the future. Prior to 1999, CMS leased a portion of our property to Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (“Allied”) for use as a construction and demolition debris landfill (a “C&D” landfill), which received solid waste resulting solely from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on pavement, buildings or other structures, but could not receive inert debris, land-clearing debris or yard debris. The CMS C&D landfill is now closed. In addition, Allied owns and operates an active solid waste landfill adjacent to CMS. We believe the active solid waste landfill was constructed in such a manner as to minimize the risk of contamination to surrounding property. Management believes that our operations, including the landfills on our property, comply with all applicable federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Management is not aware of any situation related to landfill operations which would have a material adverse effect on our future financial position or results of operations. Portions of the inactive solid waste landfill areas on the CMS property are subject to a groundwater monitoring program, and data is submitted to the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (“DENR”). DENR has noted that data from certain groundwater sampling events have indicated levels of certain regulated compounds that exceed acceptable trigger levels and organic compounds that exceed regulatory groundwater standards. DENR has not required any remedial action by us at this time with respect to this situation. If DENR was to require us to take certain actions in the future, although none are known at this time, those actions could result in us incurring material costs. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are all material known risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report or other public statements we may make. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. However, many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or foresee, and undue reliance should not be put on forward-looking statements. Risk and other forward-looking factors may or may not ultimately be found correct. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in future periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 10-K or other forms we file with the SEC. The United States and global economic slowdown, ongoing disruptions in the financial markets and geopolitical events, could have a significant adverse impact on consumer and corporate spending and our business in ways that we cannot currently predict. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact our operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. The combination of severely tightened credit markets, stringent and costly borrowing conditions, deterioration of residential real estate and mortgage markets, unprecedented stock market declines and fluctuating oil and commodity prices, among other factors, led to historically low levels of consumer confidence and recessionary conditions. While the direction and strength of the United States economy, including the financial and credit markets, appear to be improving, significant uncertainty remains as to their recovery strength, timing and longevity. High or increasing fuel prices, particularly given the elevated geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and other foreign regions, could significantly impact our future results. Many of these conditions and uncertainties also exist in varying degrees throughout the global markets. Numerous factors related to discretionary consumer spending can adversely impact recreational and entertainment spending and significantly impact our operating results. Consumer disposable income and spending are affected by economic conditions such as employment rates, high or rising fuel prices, difficult consumer credit and housing markets, interest and tax rates and inflation. Many factors affect corporate spending such as general economic and other business conditions, including consumer spending, high or rising fuel prices, interest and tax rates, hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorist attacks, military actions, inflation, and geopolitical events, as well as various industry and other business conditions, including corporate marketing and promotional spending and interest levels. Such factors or incidents, even if not directly impacting us, could disrupt or otherwise adversely impact our customers, markets and consumer spending in general. Also, recent or future governmental actions may control, influence or otherwise restrict corporate spending or spending trends. These factors can impact regional and national consumer and corporate spending sentiment, and adversely affect attendance at our events, suite rentals, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales and driving schools and other track rentals. These factors also can affect the financial results of present and potential sponsors and other customers of our facilities, events and industry. Negative factors such as challenging economic conditions, governmental actions and geopolitical events that impact spending, public concerns over additional national security incidents and air travel, particularly when combined, can impact corporate and individual customer spending and each negative factor can have varying effects on our operating results. All of the aforementioned factors, among others, can have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. Government responses and actions may or may not successfully restore stability to the credit and consumer markets and improve economic conditions in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that government response to the economic slowdown and disruptions in the financial and credit markets will stabilize the economy or financial and credit markets for long periods. Record state and federal budgetary deficits could result in government responses such as higher consumer and corporate income or other tax rates. Governmental spending deficits could lead to higher interest rates and continued difficult borrowing conditions for consumers and corporate customers. These economic conditions might not improve or could worsen and when these conditions may ultimately improve cannot be determined at this time. These severe economic conditions and governmental actions have and may further adversely impact various industries of our consumer and corporate customers, resulting in spending declines that could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be further adversely impacted by current or unforeseen economic or geopolitical conditions, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Except as described in Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, we currently have no direct holdings in these higher-risk type instruments and our indirect exposure to these instruments through money market funds or otherwise is immaterial. However, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our current or future investment portfolios, if any, will remain unimpaired. Also, the financial stability of certain insurance companies that provide our insurance coverage could be adversely affected. In that case, the ability of these insurance companies to pay our potential claims could be impaired, and we might not be able to obtain adequate replacement insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. Any of these events could harm our business, and we cannot provide assurance that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties in obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our future financial position or operating results. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 16 Table of Contents Bad weather adversely affects the profitability of our motorsports events and postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us. We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, driving schools and track rentals, among other things. Although we sell tickets well in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly because we promote a limited number of premier events. Due to inclement weather conditions, we may be required to move a race event to the next raceable day, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact our walk-up admissions, if any, and food, beverage and souvenir sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods because consumer demand can be affected by the success of past events. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is postponed because of weather, national security concerns, natural disasters or other reasons, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from admissions, food, beverage and souvenir sales generated at the rescheduled event. If such an event is cancelled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing the revenues associated with the event, including live broadcast revenues, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup or Nationwide Series, the amount of money we receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation could be reduced. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues in excess of amounts scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the cancelled event. Lack of competitiveness in NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races or closeness of championship points races, the popularity of race car drivers or changes made by NASCAR on conducting, promoting and racing as a series sanctioning body, can significantly impact operating results. A lack of competitiveness in Sprint Cup Series races or the closeness of the championship points race in any particular racing season can significantly impact our operating results. The number of racing competitors, particularly popular drivers, affect on-track competition and the appeal of racing. New or changed racing teams could be formed with drivers that generate less fan interest or race less competitively. These and other factors can affect attendance at NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as corporate marketing interest, which can significantly impact our operating results. These and other factors, such as the popularity of race car drivers, can affect attendance, media attention and the promotional marketing appeal for Sprint Cup racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such Sprint Cup races are promoted. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues will not be adversely impacted by a lack of competitive racing or a close championship points race, or a decline in popularity of one or more race car drivers, in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. NASCAR periodically implements new rules or technical and other required changes for race teams and drivers, as well as event promoters, in attempts to increase safety, racing competition and fan interest, among other things. For example, NASCAR introduced a new prototype car for the Sprint Cup Series, the “Car of Tomorrow,” and is introducing a new redesigned car for the Nationwide Series, in efforts to increase competition on the speedways and generate increased fan interest and new marketing opportunities. These and other new cars, and other periodically implemented changes, may or may not become more successful or popular with fans. Such factors can affect attendance and other event related revenues for our Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such races are promoted. Rule changes can increase operating costs that we may or may not be able to control. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues or operating costs will not be adversely impacted by sanctioning body changes in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations. We pursue acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. We purchased NHMS in January 2008 for $340.0 million and KyS in December 2008 for $70.8 million. These purchases were funded with available cash and borrowings under the Credit Facility. The purchase of NHMS and KyS and other such transactions may involve significant challenges Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents and risks. For example, the transactions may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investments made; we may experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems and technology; or management’s attention may be diverted from our other businesses or operations. Furthermore, the use of cash or additional borrowings could significantly impact our liquidity, impair our ability to borrow additional funds for other business purposes or cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts, among other things. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or operating results. We are significantly expanding and improving our KyS facilities, and may expand and improve our NHMS and other speedway facilities, which involve material capital expenditures over several years in amounts or nature that have not yet been determined. Such expenditures may or may not increase our future success and the ability to compete and operate successfully and profitably depends on many factors outside of management’s control. Such factors, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could result in possible impairment and other charges that materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. Management may from time to time evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. For example, in 2007 we sold the majority of assets and all operations of North Carolina Speedway, consisting principally of track rentals, because advancement of our business strategy and the foreseeable returns on investment were not satisfactory. Furthermore, in 2008 we decided to discontinue our oil and gas operations as further discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may decide to spend, depending on perceived possibilities, or be required to spend certain additional amounts or take legal action to protect or preserve our oil and gas investment interests and maintain or maximize potential recovery values, if any. Such additional expenditures, although presently undeterminable, could become material depending on the facts, circumstances and ultimate outcome of any attempted recovery or resolution. Those costs, if significant and ultimately not recovered, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than optimal. In addition, there is a risk that we will sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Failure to be awarded a NASCAR event or deterioration in our relationship with NASCAR could adversely affect our profitability. Our success has been and will remain dependent to a significant extent upon maintaining a good working relationship with the organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR, the sanctioning body for Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck Series races. Each NASCAR event is awarded on an annual basis. Although we believe our relationship with NASCAR is good, nonrenewal of a NASCAR event license would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to obtain NASCAR licenses to sponsor races at our facilities. At any time, we may evaluate or attempt to realign one or more NASCAR Sprint Cup Series (or other motorsports series) race dates among our multiple track facilities. We obtained approval to realign a NASCAR Sprint Cup racing event from AMS to KyS beginning in 2011. Many factors and alternatives must be considered, including the popularity and profitability of various races, the relative seating capacity at each track, alternative uses and revenues for such tracks in the event a race is moved, the costs of any capital expenditures to upgrade or expand facilities, the lead time required to complete any such upgrades or expansion, alternative uses of capital, any existing or potential governmental tax incentives, changing economic conditions at the individual tracks and in the economy as a whole, as well as various other strategic issues. Failure to obtain NASCAR events for any future additional motorsports facility could have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or favorably. Different economic or industry conditions or assumptions, changes in projected cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, or actual race date realignments that differ significantly from those assumed in any impairment evaluation, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluations and future financial condition or results of operations. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 18 Table of Contents Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us. NASCAR has announced it would consider potential track realignment of Sprint Cup Series racing events to desirable, potentially more profitable market venues of speedway operators. While relocation of any Sprint Cup event among our speedways we now own or may own in the future could result in a net increase in our future operating profitability, long-lived assets of a speedway from where a Sprint Cup racing event may move could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Our NASCAR broadcasting rights revenues are significant and changes could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Our NASCAR broadcasting and ancillary media rights fees revenues are significant multi-year contracted revenue and cash flow sources for us. Any significant adverse changes to such rights fees revenues could adversely impact our results. For example, the first few years of the current eight-year contract, which began in 2007, had total NASCAR broadcasting rights fees for the entire industry that were lower than the 2006 rights fees. However, the current broadcasting contract contains a 40% increase over the former contract annual average. The eight-year NASCAR broadcasting rights agreement expires after 2014, and currently provides us with increases in annual contracted revenues averaging 3% per year. Changes or trends in television broadcast ratings may impact future renewals. Material changes in the media or motorsports industries could result in broadcasting or ancillary media contract renewals different from historical practices. Increased costs associated with, and inability to obtain, adequate insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our eight speedway facilities, which are generally located near highly populated cities and which hold motorsports events typically attended by large numbers of fans. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits. We cannot assure you that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurred or major motorsports events were cancelled and liability for personal injuries and product liability claims could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. While management attempts to obtain, and believes it presently has, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance currently in force, including coverage for acts of terrorism, would be adequate should one or multiple catastrophic events occur at or near any of our speedway facilities, or one or more of our major motorsports events were cancelled, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Once our present coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our speedway facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if our asset damage or liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. The occurrence of additional national incidents, in particular incidents at sporting events, entertainment or other public venues, may significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and to spectators. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to protect us from material financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our premises in the ordinary course of business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs from partial self-insurance. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedways and other properties and motorsports events and other business risks. We may increase the marketing of certain products using self-insured promotional warranty programs that could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number and amount of claims significantly increase. We have increased and may further increase our self-insurance limits, which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number of incidents, damages, casualties or other claims below such self-insured limits increase. Management cannot guarantee that the number of uninsured losses will not increase. An increase in the number of uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations. Strong competition in the motorsports industry and with other professional and amateur sports could hinder our ability to maintain or improve our position in the industry. Motorsports promotion is a competitive industry. We compete in regional and national markets, and with ISC and other NASCAR related speedways, to promote events, especially NASCAR-sanctioned Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series events, and to a lesser extent, with other speedway owners to promote other NASCAR, IndyCar, NHRA and WOO sanctioned events. We believe our principal competitors are other motorsports promoters of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series or equivalent events. Certain of our competitors have resources that exceed ours. NASCAR is owned by the France family, who also controls ISC. ISC presently hosts a significant number of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series races. Our competitors may attempt to build speedways and conduct racing and other motorsports related activities in new markets that may compete with us and our local and regional fan base or marketing opportunities. We also compete for spectator interest with all forms of professional and amateur spring, summer and fall sports, such as football, baseball, basketball and hockey, conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth, Las Vegas, Lexington, Louisville, and San Francisco, and regionally and nationally, many of which have resources that exceed ours, and with a wide range of other available entertainment and recreational activities. These competing events and activities may be held on the same days or weekends as our events. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or improve our position in light of such competition. The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth. Our success depends to a great extent upon the availability and performance of our senior management. Their experience within the industry, especially their working relationship with NASCAR, continues to be of considerable importance to us. The loss of any of our key personnel due to illness, retirement or otherwise, or our inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plans. Our Credit Facility permits significant expenditures for capital projects, investments in and transactions for motorsports and other ancillary businesses, and costs associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability. We believe significant growth in our revenues depends, in large part, on consistent investment in facilities. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital improvements in our facilities to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase spectator entertainment value and to increase revenue. Our Credit Facility, after the first quarter 2011 financing transactions as further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Future Liquidity”, allows standby letters of credit of up to $50.0 million, annual capital expenditures of up to $75.0 million, and provides for additional borrowings of up to $79.3 million, subject to meeting specified conditions. We frequently have a number of significant capital projects underway. As further described above in the risk factor “The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations,” we plan to continue to make substantial capital expenditures and investments, including significant renovations and improvements to KyS and other capital expenditures for our other speedway facilities, in 2011 and future years. The planned improvements will likely involve material capital expenditures over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments is subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments resulting in lower investment interest or earnings, reduce our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 20 Table of Contents additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, lower our ratings by credit agencies, result in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, result in higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Commencement of construction is subject to governmental approval and permitting processes, which could materially affect the ultimate cost and timing of construction. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various capital improvements at our facilities, including: • undetected soil or land, including environmental, conditions • additional land acquisition costs • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor • unforeseen changes in design • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site • national or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if those factors or our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Should projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to the inability to obtain necessary permits or other unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Also, should improvement projects not produce a sufficiently high economic yield, including those requiring demolition of a component of a speedway facility, or where capitalization of demolition, construction and historical component costs are limited to the revised estimated value of the project, capitalized expenditures could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Future impairment of our property and equipment, other intangible assets and goodwill could adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2010, we have net property and equipment of $1,169.3 million, net other intangible assets of $395.0 million and goodwill of $187.3 million. Also, as further described in the risk factor above “The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations,” we plan to continue to make substantial capital investments. We periodically evaluate long-lived assets for possible impairment based on expected future undiscounted operating cash flows and profitability attributable to such assets or when indications of possible impairment occur. Our latest annual assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets also considered that our market capitalization was below our consolidated stockholder’s equity, and our efforts to realign one or more NASCAR Sprint Cup Series racing events among our speedway facilities. Management’s analysis of the market capitalization difference and event realignment, along with additional information on the latest annual impairment assessment, is described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies” and in Note 2, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and is not repeated here. There have since been no other events or circumstances that might indicate possible impairment. Based on this analysis, management believes the decline in our market capitalization below our consolidated stockholder’s equity is temporary, and that no unrecognized impairment of property and equipment and goodwill and other intangible assets exists through or as of December 31, 2010. The evaluations are subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation. While we believe no unrecognized impairment exists at December 31, 2010, different conditions, trends or assumptions or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluation and our future financial condition or results of operations. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, and if significantly negative or unfavorable, could become impaired and materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. See the risk factor “Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us” above for related discussion on impairment considerations. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position, ability to meet our obligations under our debt instruments, and ability to pay dividends. We have a substantial amount of debt and significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $628.7 million, or $637.0 million excluding issuance discount of $8.3 million, as further described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The first quarter 2011 financing transactions, as further described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, did not significantly change our overall outstanding borrowings. Our substantial indebtedness and leverage could make it more difficult and costly for us to borrow money in the future and may reduce the amount of funds available to finance our operations and other business activities and may have other important consequences, including the following: • we will have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, debt redemption premium, if any, and interest on our debt, which will reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other corporate purposes; • our ability to adjust to adverse or changing market conditions and withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be vulnerable to additional risk if there is a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; • we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less leverage and greater operating and financial flexibility than we do; • our debt levels may increase our interest costs or increase the risks that we may not be able to obtain additional financing or obtain financing at acceptable rates; • our debt levels may increase our difficulties in refinancing or replacing our outstanding obligations such as the scheduled maturities of our Credit Facility in 2015, 2009 Senior Notes in 2016, and 2011 Senior Notes in 2019; and • our debt levels may cause lowered ratings by credit agencies, resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts. Each or all of the factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and profitability. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness and is therefore not available for use in our business. In 2010, we paid $52.6 million in interest on our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, legislative, regulatory, industry, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our operations are substantially impacted by the success of NASCAR in the promotion and conduct of racing as a sanctioning body, our relationship with NASCAR and the popularity of NASCAR and other motorsports generally, and the impact of competition, including competition from other speedway owners like ISC. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. As further described in Notes 6 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we may redeem some or all of our 2009 Senior Notes or 2011 Senior Notes at any time at annually declining redemption premiums beginning June 1, 2013 and February 1, 2015, respectively. Such redemptions could limit funds otherwise available for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. However, we may not be able to complete such refinancing or redemption on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future borrowing costs on current outstanding or future indebtedness could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The purchases of NHMS and KyS significantly increased our outstanding indebtedness and leverage, and our current or future capital spending plans could further significantly increase our future outstanding debt, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial health and profitability. As of December 31, 2010, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $628.7 million, after the first quarter 2011 financing transactions, and the 2011 Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $79.3 million. The ongoing disruptions and tight financial and capital markets could have a significant adverse impact on our future interest Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 22 Table of Contents and other borrowing costs. Our operating results have benefited from relatively low interest rates on our floating rate Credit Facility and future increases, if significant, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results. Also, our future interest and borrowing costs under our 2011 Credit Facility, any refinanced or replaced current outstanding indebtedness, or new additional financing could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability. Interest and other borrowing costs have significantly increased for many companies in numerous industries, and may increase from current levels in the foreseeable future. While at times we use interest rate swaps to hedge our interest rate risk, we are currently unable to predict if or when the interest rates could change. Our significant indebtedness levels and leverage, along with difficult credit market conditions, could result in higher interest and other borrowing costs and more restrictive financial and other loan covenants under any new credit facility or other borrowing arrangements. As further discussed in Notes 6 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, interest rates under our 2011 Credit Facility are based on specified tier levels that are adjustable periodically based upon certain consolidated total leverage ratios. Our current planned or unplanned future capital spending and possible increases in our future outstanding indebtedness, along with our current leverage, could further reduce the amounts by which we exceed minimum required covenant compliance levels and result in changes to our interest cost tier levels under the 2011 Credit Facility. Future changes in such surplus in our compliance levels or interest cost tiers could result in increased interest costs on current or future indebtedness, restricted or reduced borrowings and availability under the 2011 Credit Facility, and increased costs of borrowing for any new financing. Each or all of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and profitability. Restrictions imposed by terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing. The indentures for our 2009 Senior Notes, 2011 Senior Notes and 2011 Credit Facility agreement restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to do any of the following: • incur additional debt or liens • pay dividends or make distributions • make specified types of investments • apply net proceeds from certain asset sales • engage in transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate • pay dividends or make other payments from subsidiaries • sell equity interests of subsidiaries, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of assets • incur indebtedness subordinate in right of payment to any senior indebtedness and senior in right of payment to the 2009 Senior Notes or 2011 Senior Notes Because of our significant outstanding indebtedness, debt covenant compliance is important to our operations. Our 2011 Credit Facility is the primary source of committed funding from which we finance our planned capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, such as repurchases of our common stock, and working capital needs. Our 2011 Credit Facility contains more extensive and restrictive covenants than the indentures for the 2009 Senior Notes and the 2011 Senior Notes. In addition to covenants of the type described above, the 2011 Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, as well as limits our acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments, as further described in “Future Liquidity”. The Company regularly monitors compliance with the various covenants under each of these debt agreements. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Future default on any of these covenants could result in default under, or an inability to undertake certain activities in compliance with, the underlying debt agreements. Non-compliance with financial covenant ratios or other covenants could prevent us from being able to access further borrowings under, or require repayment of, our 2011 Credit Facility. Our ability to meet those covenants, financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 23 Table of Contents The 2011 Credit Facility, the 2009 Senior Notes, and the 2011 Senior Notes indentures contain cross-default provisions. A default under any of these debt agreements could likely trigger cross-default provisions allowing the lenders, in each case, to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements. If there were an event of default under any loan agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral, if any, granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we could repay or refinance the accelerated amounts due. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Should we pursue further development and/or acquisition opportunities, the timing, size and success as well as associated potential capital commitments of which are unknown at this time, we may need to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financings. There can be no assurance that adequate debt and equity financing will be available, if and when needed, on satisfactory terms or will be permitted under our various debt arrangements. Failure to obtain further financing could have a negative effect on our business and operations. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under our various debt agreements as of December 31, 2010. At this time, management also believes we will remain in compliance with all applicable covenants for at least the next 12 months. However, although not anticipated at this time, significant negative adverse factors such as material tangible, intangible or other asset impairment charges or unforeseen declines in our future profitability or cash flows from ongoing recessionary conditions or other market factors, if large enough individually or in combination, could result in our inability to remain in compliance. These and other possible negative factors that could impact compliance are further described throughout this “Risk Factors” section. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be permitted to incur additional debt in the future. In addition, we may be able to secure this additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. After the first quarter 2011 financing transactions, we had approximately $79.3 million of additional revolving loans available for borrowing under the 2011 Credit Facility. Furthermore, any additional financing arrangements we enter into may contain additional restrictive and financial covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit many actions including, but not limited to, our ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, make prepayments of particular debt, pay dividends, make capital expenditures or investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets and engage in mergers and consolidations or in sale-leaseback transactions. Failure to maintain compliance with any new covenants could constitute a default, which could accelerate the payment of any amounts outstanding under any new or existing financial agreements. Government regulation of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us. The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry is generally subject to greater governmental regulation than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain of our sponsorship contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. The alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry has provided substantial financial support to the motorsports industry through, among other things, the purchase of advertising time, the sponsorship of racing teams and the past sponsorship of racing series such as the Winston Cup (now Sprint Cup) Series and the Busch (now Nationwide) Series, and generally are subject to greater governmental regulation than are other sponsors of our events. We are unaware of any proposed additional governmental regulation that would materially limit the availability to motorsports of promotion, sponsorship or advertising revenue from the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry. We cannot assure you that the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry will continue to sponsor motorsports events, suitable alternative sponsors could be located or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events sponsored by the alcoholic beverage industry at any of our facilities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverage products could adversely affect us. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 24 Table of Contents Our chairman owns a majority of our common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of March 1, 2011, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, 29,000,800 shares of our common stock. As a result, he will continue to control the outcome of substantially all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors. In addition, as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules, we also qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors. Although we qualify, we do not currently use this “controlled company” exemption. Changes in income tax laws could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2010, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $333.7 million, after reduction for net deferred tax assets of $291,000. At December 31, 2010, valuation allowances of $65.6 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management is unable to determine that ultimate realization is more likely than not. These net deferred tax liabilities will likely reverse in future years and could negatively impact cash flows from operations in the years in which reversal occurs. Changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or methods used in the accounting for income taxes, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition. Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at CMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance. Land use laws may negatively impact our growth. Our development of new motorsports facilities (and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of existing facilities) requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities or increase the costs of any such activities. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or other stock-based compensation; the sale of shares held by key personnel; or the default of loans under which some of our common stock is pledged. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 1,400,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans; by the issuance or sale of approximately 2,005,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans; or by the sale of approximately 29,000,800 shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including shares held by Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected if there was a default of one of the non-Company loans under which 12,540,000 shares of our common stock, owned by Mr. Smith and Sonic Financial Corporation, our affiliate through common ownership by Mr. Smith, have been pledged. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 25 Table of Contents 