Risk Factors” section. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be permitted to incur additional debt in the future. In addition, we may be able to secure this additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $89.1 million of additional revolving loans available for borrowing under our Credit Facility. Furthermore, any additional financing arrangements we enter into may contain additional restrictive and financial covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit many actions including, but not limited to, our ability to incur debt, create liens, prepay debt, pay dividends, limit capital expenditures or investments, engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets, or Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 23 Table of Contents engage in mergers, consolidations or sale-leaseback transactions. Failure to maintain compliance with any new covenants could constitute a default, which could accelerate the payment of any amounts outstanding under any new or existing financial agreements. Government regulation of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us. The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry is generally subject to greater governmental regulation than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain of our sponsorship contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. The alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry has provided substantial financial support to the motorsports industry through, among other things, the purchase of advertising time, the sponsorship of racing teams and the past sponsorship of racing series such as the Winston Cup (now Sprint Cup) Series and the Busch (now Nationwide) Series, and generally are subject to greater governmental regulation than are other sponsors of our events. We are unaware of any proposed additional governmental regulation that would materially limit the availability to motorsports of promotion, sponsorship or advertising revenue from the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry. We cannot assure you that the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry will continue to sponsor motorsports events, suitable alternative sponsors could be located or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events sponsored by the alcoholic beverage industry at any of our facilities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverage products could adversely affect us. Failure to maintain adequate security for certain customer-related information could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, subject us to litigation or adverse regulatory actions or cause us to incur substantial additional costs. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store certain financial and other information from individuals, corporations and others, including customers, employees and outside contractors. We process customer payment card information, perform credit, employment and other business related inquiries, and collect customary information used for marketing purposes. We contract with third-parties for processing orders and payments of a large portion of our tickets and other access sold for our events, much of which is transacted indirectly through links with our internal websites. Our online operations depend upon secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting and transacting cashless payments. We commit significant internal and external resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our networks and data, but there can be no assurance these security measures provide complete security. Our or third-party networks could be breached and we could be unable to protect sensitive data. A breach of our security networks that results in personal, corporate or other sensitive information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with current or prospective customers and others. Such security breach could result in litigation against us, adverse regulatory actions or imposing substantial penalties or fines. Also, a security breach could require or result in us spending significant additional resources on our information security systems and could disrupt our operations, particularly sales and marketing. Any significant breach could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our chairman owns a majority of our common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As of March 1, 2012, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, 29,000,800 shares of our common stock. As a result, he will continue to control the outcome of substantially all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors. In addition, as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules, we also qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors. Although we qualify, we do not currently use this “controlled company” exemption. Speedway Motorsports, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K 24 Table of Contents Changes in income tax laws could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $361.0 million, after reduction for net deferred tax assets of $5.9 million. At December 31, 2011, valuation allowances of $66.3 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management has determined that ultimate realization is not more likely than not. These net deferred tax liabilities will likely reverse in future years and could negatively impact cash flows from operations in the years in which reversal occurs. Changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or methods used in the accounting for income taxes, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition. Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at CMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance. Land use laws may negatively impact our growth. Our development of new motorsports facilities (and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of existing facilities) requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities or increase the costs of any such activities. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or other stock-based compensation; the sale of shares held by key personnel; or the default of loans under which some of our common stock is pledged. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 1,200,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans; by the issuance or sale of approximately 1,906,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans; or by the sale of approximately 29,000,800 shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including shares held by Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected if there was a default of one of the non-Company loans under which 11,540,000 shares of our common stock, owned by Mr. Smith and Sonic Financial Corporation, our affiliate through common ownership by Mr. Smith, have been pledged. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 