Item 1A. RISK FACTORS · The Company operates in the Property and Casualty insurance industry where many of its competitors are larger with far greater resources. Further, this industry is heavily regulated. Changes in laws and regulations governing the insurance industry could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to generate income from its insurance operations. The Company’s principal subsidiaries are regulated and licensed in all 50 of the United States, the District of Columbia, all Canadian provinces and Bermuda. The Company is obliged to comply with numerous complex and varied governmental regulations in order to maintain its authority to write insurance business. Failure to maintain compliance could result in various governmental regulators preventing the Company from writing new business and therefore having a material impact on the Company. Further, the ability for the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to adjust insurance rates is regulated for significant portions of the Company’s business and such rate adjustments can be denied or delayed for substantial periods by regulators. · The Company has two classes of common stock with unequal voting rights. The Company is effectively controlled by its principal stockholders and management, which limits other stockholders’ ability to influence operations. The Company’s executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates control nearly 63% of the outstanding shares of voting Class A common stock and 33% of the outstanding shares of non-voting Class B common stock. These parties effectively control the Company, direct its affairs, and exert significant influence in the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of these stockholders may conflict with those of other stockholders, limit marketability of the stock and this concentration of voting power has the potential to delay, defer or prevent a change in control. · The Company limits its risk of loss from policies of insurance issued by its Insurance Subsidiaries through the purchase of reinsurance coverage from other insurance companies. Such reinsurance does not relieve the Company from its responsibility to policyholders should the reinsurers be unable to meet their obligations to the Company under the terms of the underlying reinsurance agreements. As a result, we are subject to credit risk relating to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. While the Company has not experienced any significant reinsurance losses for over twenty five years, certain of our less significant historical reinsurance carriers have experienced deteriorating financial conditions or have been downgraded by rating agencies. If we are not able to collect the amounts due to us from reinsurers, the resultant credit losses could materially adversely affect our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength. · Operating in the Property and Casualty insurance industry, the Company is exposed to loss from policies of insurance issued to its policyholders. A large portion of losses recorded by the Company are estimates of future loss payments to be made. Such estimates of future loss payments may prove to be inadequate. Reserves represent our best estimate at a given point in time. Insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by us, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. Many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on our part. As trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called “long tail”, we are sometimes required to revise our reserves. This results in a charge to our earnings in the amount of the adjusted reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. These charges can be substantial and can potentially have a material impact, either positively or negatively, on our calendar year results of operations and shareholders’ equity. - 18 - · A significant portion of the risk underwritten by the insurance subsidiaries covers property losses resulting from catastrophic events on a worldwide basis. The occurrence and valuation of loss events for this business is highly unpredictable and a single catastrophic event could result in a materially significant loss to the Company. Catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of our business. Various events can cause catastrophe losses, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather, and fires, and their frequency and severity are inherently unpredictable. In addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, and snow. The extent of our losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of our insured exposures in the affected areas and the severity of the events themselves. In addition, as in the case of catastrophic losses generally, it can take many months, or even years, for the ultimate cost to us to be finally determined. As our claim experience develops on a particular catastrophe, we may be required to adjust our reserves to reflect our revised estimates of the total cost of claims. While the eventual occurrence of catastrophic losses is expected, we are prohibited by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles from establishing reserves for the expected future occurrence of these losses (such as is done in the life insurance industry). Accordingly, upon the occurrence of such a loss, it will likely have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations in the quarter in which it occurs. · The Company derives a significant percentage of its direct premium volume from FedEx Ground Systems, Inc. (“FedEx Ground”) and certain of its subsidiaries and related entities, and from insurance coverage provided to independent service providers under contract with FedEx Ground. While the loss of this major customer could severely reduce the Company’s revenue and earnings potential, insurance programs provided to FedEx Ground and programs provided to the independent service providers under contract with FedEx Ground are not necessarily dependent upon one another and, therefore, could be viewed as separate entities. · The Company, through its Insurance Subsidiaries, requires collateral from its insureds covering the insureds’ obligations for self-insured retentions or deductibles related to policies of insurance provided. Should the Company, as surety, become responsible for such insured obligations, the collateral held may prove to be insufficient. In this regard, FedEx Ground and certain of its subsidiaries and related entities, utilizes significant self-insured retentions and deductibles under policies of insurance provided by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. In the case of FedEx Ground, the Company has determined that the financial strength of the customer is sufficient to allow for holding only partial collateral at this time. Should the Company become responsible for this customer’s self-insured retention and deductible obligations, the collateral held could be insufficient and the Company could sustain a significant operating loss. · Given the Company’s significant interest-bearing investment portfolio, a drop in interest rates would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings and financial position. Conversely, an increase in interest rates could have a significant temporary impact on the market value of the Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio. The functioning of the fixed income markets, the values of the investments the Company holds and the Company’s ability to liquidate them may be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted by a change in interest rates or otherwise affected by significant negative factors, including, without limitation: local, national, or international events, such as regulatory changes, wars, or terrorist attacks; a recession, depression, or other adverse developments in either the U.S. or other economies that adversely affects the value of securities held in the Company’s portfolio; financial weakness or failure of one or more financial institutions that play a prominent role in securities markets or act as a counterparty for various financial instruments, which could further disrupt the markets; inactive markets for specific kinds of securities, or for the securities of certain issuers or in certain sectors, which could result in decreased valuations and impact the Company’s ability to sell a specific security or a group of securities at a reasonable price when desired; a significant change in inflation expectations, or the onset of deflation or stagflation. If the fixed-income portfolio were to suffer a decrease in value to a substantial degree, the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the Company’s income from these investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain securities could further reduce the Company’s results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength. · The Company has a large portfolio of equity securities and limited partnership investments which can fluctuate in value with a wide variety of market conditions. A decline in the aggregate value of the equity securities and limited partnership investments would result in a commensurate decline in the Company’s shareholders equity, either through the income statement or directly to surplus. The resultant decline could, at least temporarily, materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength. - 19 - 