ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report or other public statements we may make. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. However, many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or foresee, and undue reliance should not be put on forward-looking statements. Risk and other forward-looking factors may or may not ultimately be found correct. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in future periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K we file with the SEC. The US and global economic slowdown and ongoing disruptions in the financial markets could have a significant adverse impact on consumer and corporate spending and our business in ways that we cannot currently predict. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results – Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. The recent combination of severely tightened credit markets, stringent and costly borrowing conditions, deterioration of residential real estate and mortgage markets, unprecedented stock market declines, and fluctuating oil and commodity prices, among other factors, have led to historically low levels of consumer confidence and recessionary conditions. The direction and strength of the US economy, including the financial and credit markets, currently is uncertain due to these factors. Many of these conditions and uncertainties also exist in varying degrees throughout the global markets. Many factors related to discretionary consumer spending can adversely impact recreational and entertainment spending and significantly impact our operating results. Consumer disposable income and spending are affected by economic conditions such as employment rates, high or rising fuel prices, difficult consumer credit and housing markets, interest and tax rates and inflation. Many factors affect corporate spending such as general economic and other business conditions, including consumer spending, rising fuel prices, interest and tax rates, hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts, terrorist attacks, military actions, and inflation, as well as various industry and other business conditions, including corporate marketing and promotional spending and interest levels. These factors can impact regional and national consumer and corporate spending sentiment, and adversely affect attendance at our events, suite rentals, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales, driving schools and other track rentals. These factors also can affect the financial results of present and potential sponsors of our facilities and events and of the industry. Negative factors such as challenging economic conditions, public concerns over additional national security incidents and air travel, particularly when combined, can impact corporate and individual customer spending, and each negative factor can have varying effects on our operating results. All of the aforementioned factors, among others, can have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. Government responses and actions may or may not successfully restore stability to the credit and consumer markets, and improve economic conditions in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that government response to the economic slowdown and disruptions in the financial and credit markets will stabilize the economy or financial and credit markets. These economic conditions might not improve or could worsen and when these conditions may ultimately improve cannot be determined at this time. These severe economic conditions have and may further adversely impact various industries of our consumer and corporate customers, resulting in spending declines that could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be further adversely impacted by current or unforeseen economic conditions, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our future operating results and growth. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Except as described in Item 7 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, we currently have no direct holdings in these higher-risk type instruments and our indirect exposure to these instruments through money market funds or otherwise is immaterial. However, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our current or future investment portfolios, if any, remain unimpaired. Also, the financial stability of certain insurance companies that provide our insurance coverage could be adversely affected. In 17 Table of Contents that case, the ability of these insurance companies to pay our potential claims could be impaired, and we might not be able to obtain adequate replacement insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. Any of these events could harm our business, and we cannot assure you that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties in obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our future financial position or operating results. Bad weather adversely affects the profitability of our motorsports events, and postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us – We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, driving schools, and track rentals, among other things. Although we sell tickets well in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations particularly because we promote a finite number of premier events. Due to weather conditions, we may be required to move a race event to the next raceable day, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact our walk-up admissions, if any, and food, beverage and souvenir sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods because consumer demand can be affected by the success of past events. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is postponed because of weather, national security, natural disasters or other reasons, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from admissions, food, beverage and souvenir sales generated at the rescheduled event. If such an event is cancelled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing the revenues associated with the event, including live broadcast revenues, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the NASCAR Sprint Cup or Nationwide Series, the amount of money we receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation could be reduced. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues. Lack of competitiveness in NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races or closeness of championship points races, the popularity of race car drivers, or changes made by NASCAR on conducting, promoting and racing as a series sanctioning body, can significantly impact operating results – A lack of competitiveness in Sprint Cup Series races or the closeness of the championship points race in any particular racing season can significantly impact our operating results. These and other factors, such as the popularity of race car drivers, can affect attendance at Sprint Cup racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such Sprint Cup races are promoted. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues will not be adversely impacted by a lack of competitive racing or a close championship points race, or a decline in popularity of one or more race car drivers, in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. NASCAR periodically implements new rules or technical and other required changes for race teams and drivers, as well as event promoters, in attempts to increase safety, racing competition and fan interest, among other things. For example, NASCAR introduced a new prototype car for the Sprint Cup Series, the “Car of Tomorrow”, in efforts to increase competition on the speedways and generate increased fan interest and new marketing opportunities. The new car may or may not become more successful or popular with fans. Such factors can affect attendance and other event related revenues for our Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series racing events, as well as other events surrounding the weekends such races are promoted. Rule changes can increase operating costs that we may or may not be able to control. There can be no assurance that attendance or other event related revenues or operating costs will not be adversely impacted by sanctioning body changes in any particular season, thereby possibly impacting our operations and growth. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations – We pursue acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. As previously discussed, we purchased NHMS in January 2008 for $340.0 million and KS in December 2008 for $70.8 million. These purchases were funded with available cash and borrowings under our amended bank credit facility. The purchase of NHMS and KS and other such transactions may involve significant challenges and risks. For example, the transaction may not advance our business strategy, we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment made, we may experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or management’s attention may be diverted from our other businesses or operations. Furthermore, the use of cash or 18 Table of Contents additional borrowings could significantly impact our liquidity, impair our ability to borrow additional funds for other business purposes, or cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts, among other things. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or operating results. The Company may expand and improve the NHMS and KS facilities, which may involve material capital expenditures over several years in amounts or nature that have not yet been determined. Such expenditures may or may not increase the Company’s future success, and the ability to compete and operate successfully and profitably depends on many factors outside of management’s control. Such factors, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could result in possible impairment and other charges that materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. Management may from time to time evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. For example, in 2007, we sold the majority of assets and all operations of North Carolina Speedway, consisting principally of track rentals, because advancement of our business strategy and the foreseeable returns on investment were not satisfactory. In 2008, as further discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we decided to discontinue our oil and gas operations. We may decide to spend, depending on perceived possibilities, or be required to spend certain additional amounts or take legal action, to protect or preserve our oil and gas investment interests and maintain or maximize potential recovery values, if any. Such additional expenditures, although presently undeterminable, could become material depending on the facts, circumstances and ultimate outcome of any attempted recovery or resolution. Those costs, if significant and ultimately not recovered, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than optimal. In addition, there is a risk that we sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Failure to be awarded a NASCAR event or deterioration in our relationship with NASCAR could adversely affect our profitability – Our success has been and will remain dependent to a significant extent upon maintaining a good working relationship with the organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR, the sanctioning body for Sprint Cup, Nationwide and Camping World Truck Series races. Each NASCAR event is awarded on an annual basis. Although we believe our relationship with NASCAR is good, nonrenewal of a NASCAR event license would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to obtain NASCAR licenses to sponsor races at our facilities. Our strategy has included growth through the addition of motorsports facilities. Failure to obtain NASCAR events for any future additional motorsports facility could have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or favorably. KS presently annually hosts one NASCAR Nationwide, one NASCAR Camping World Truck, one IndyCar Series and other racing events, and does not currently host a NASCAR Sprint Cup Series race. The Company intends to realign a Sprint Cup Series event to KS at the earliest opportunity. The previous owners of KS are involved in litigation with NASCAR and International Speedway Corporation over NASCAR’s decision to not sanction a new Sprint Cup Series race at KS (the “KS Litigation”). NASCAR has informed the Company that NASCAR does not intend to allow realignment of a Sprint Cup Series race to KS until the KS litigation is resolved. The Company has requested realignment of a Sprint Cup Series race at the earliest possible time, and will consider all options if NASCAR denies such realignment request. We are unable to predict whether the KS litigation will be decided in favor of KS and, until a Sprint Cup Series race is held at KS, we are likely to incur cash and non-cash operating losses that negatively impact our future financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us – NASCAR has announced it would consider potential track realignment of Sprint Cup Series racing events to desirable, potentially more profitable market venues of speedway operators. While relocation of any Sprint Cup event among our speedways we now or may own in the future could result in a net increase in our future operating profitability, long-lived assets of a speedway from where a Sprint Cup racing event may move could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Increased costs associated with, and inability to obtain, adequate insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition – Heightened concerns and challenges regarding property, casualty, liability, business interruption, and other insurance coverage have resulted from the national incidents on September 11, 2001. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our eight speedway facilities, which are generally located near highly populated cities and which hold motorsports events typically attended by large numbers of fans. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits. We cannot assure you that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurred or major motorsports events were cancelled, and liability for personal injuries and product liability claims could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations – While management attempts to obtain, and believes it presently has, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance currently in force, including coverage for acts of terrorism, would be adequate should one or multiple catastrophic events occur at or near any of our speedway facilities, or one or more of our major motorsports events were cancelled, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Once our present coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our speedway facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or company liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. The occurrence of additional national incidents, in particular incidents at sporting events, entertainment or other public venues, may significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and to spectators. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to protect us from material financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our premises in the ordinary course of business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. We may incur significant costs from partial self-insurance – We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedway and other properties, and motorsports events and other business risks. We may increase the marketing of certain products using self-insured promotional warranty programs which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number and amount of claims significantly increase. We have increased and may further increase our self-insurance limits, which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number of incidents, damages, casualties or other claims below such self-insured limits increase. Management cannot guarantee that the number of uninsured losses will not increase. An increase in the number of uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations. Strong competition in the motorsports industry and with other professional and amateur sports could hinder our ability to maintain or improve our position in the industry – Motorsports promotion is a competitive industry. We compete in regional and national markets, and with ISC and other NASCAR related speedways, to promote events, especially NASCAR-sanctioned Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series events, and to a lesser extent, with other speedway owners to promote other NASCAR, IRL, NHRA and WOO sanctioned events. We believe our principal competitors are other motorsports promoters of Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series or equivalent events. Certain of our competitors have resources that exceed ours. NASCAR is owned by the France family, who also controls ISC. ISC presently hosts several Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series races. Our competitors may attempt to build speedways and conduct racing and other motorsports related activities in new markets that may compete with us and our local and regional fan base or marketing opportunities. We compete for spectator interest with all forms of professional and amateur spring, summer, and fall sports, such as football, baseball, basketball and hockey, conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Las Vegas, Dallas-Fort Worth, and San Francisco, and regionally and nationally, many of which have resources that exceed ours, and with a wide range of other available entertainment and recreational activities. These competing events and activities may be held on the same days or weekends as our events. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or improve our position in light of such competition. 20 Table of Contents The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth – Our success depends to a great extent upon the availability and performance of our senior management, particularly O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William R. Brooks, our Vice Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Marcus G. Smith, our President and Chief Operating Officer, none of whom are subject to employment agreements. Mr. O. Bruton Smith has managed SMI for over 30 years, and Mr. Brooks has been part of the management team for over 20 years. Mr. Marcus G. Smith is the son of Mr. O. Bruton Smith, and has been with SMI since 1996. Their experience within the industry, especially their working relationship with NASCAR, continues to be of considerable importance to us. The loss of any of our key personnel due to illness, retirement or otherwise, or our inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plans. Our Credit Facility permits significant expenditures for capital projects, investments in and transactions for motorsports and other ancillary businesses, and costs associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability – We believe significant growth in our revenues depends, in large part, on consistent investment in facilities. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital improvements in our facilities to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase spectator entertainment value, and to increase revenue. As of December 31, 2008, our Credit Facility allows standby letters of credit of up to $75.0 million, capital expenditures of up to $80.0 million, and provides for additional borrowings of up to $149.1 million, subject to meeting specified conditions. We frequently have a number of significant capital projects underway. As further described above in Risk Factor “The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations” and below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Expenditures”, we plan to continue to make substantial capital expenditures and investments, including significant renovations and improvements to KS, among other capital expenditures involving NHMS and other speedway facilities, in 2009 and future years. The planned improvements will likely involve material capital expenditures over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments resulting in lower investment interest or earnings, reduce our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, lower our ratings by credit agencies, result in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, result in higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Commencement of construction is subject to governmental approval and permitting processes, which could materially affect the ultimate cost and timing of construction. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various capital improvements at our facilities, including: • undetected soil or land conditions; • additional land acquisition costs; • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor; • unforeseen changes in design; • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site; and • national or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes. In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if those factors or our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Should projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to the inability to obtain necessary permits or other unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Also, should improvement projects not produce a sufficiently high economic yield, including those requiring demolition of a component of a speedway facility, capitalization of demolition, construction and historical component costs limited to the revised estimated value of the project, capitalized expenditures could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Future impairment of our property and equipment, other intangible assets and goodwill could adversely affect our profitability – As of December 31, 2008, we have net property and equipment of $1,195.5 million, net other intangible assets of $397.5 million, and goodwill of $185.8 million. Also, as further described in Risk Factor “The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions and efficient and successful integration into our operations” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Expenditures” below, we plan to continue to make substantial capital investments. As described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we periodically evaluate long-lived assets for possible impairment based on expected future undiscounted operating cash flows and profitability attributable to such assets or when indications of possible impairment occur. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s market capitalization was below its consolidated shareholder’s equity. Management’s analysis of the difference for possible impairment is described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and is not repeated here. Based on this analysis, management believes the decline in the Company’s market capitalization below its consolidated shareholder’s equity is temporary, and that goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired as of December 31, 2008. The evaluation is subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation. While we believe no impairment exists at December 31, 2008, different conditions, trends or assumptions, or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluation and our future financial condition or results of operations. The profitability or success of future capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, and if significantly negative or unfavorable, could become impaired and materially adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. See Risk Factor “Relocation of major motorsports events could adversely affect us” above for related discussion on impairment considerations. Future impairment of our equity investment in associated entity could adversely affect our profitability – At December 31, 2008, our $77.1 million investment in MA (our 50% owned joint venture) is material and our share of future associated profits or losses may or may not be significant. As further described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company’s carrying value for its MA equity investment was significantly reduced as of December 31, 2007 for impairment charges reflected by MA. In 2008, the Company evaluated MA’s carrying value for possible further decline and believes there was no indication of a decline in estimated fair value below MA’s carrying value that was other than temporary as of December 31, 2008. However, MA continues to have a material amount of inventory, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company could increase its investment in MA, including additional equity contributions or loans. A significant portion of MA’s 2008 revenues and gross profits relate to sales of Dale Earnhardt, Jr licensed merchandise, which may or may not continue at those levels. Future profits or losses could be affected by or depend on future demand, trends, and other market conditions and factors such as the success of motorsports, the popularity of its licensed drivers and teams, the magnitude and timing of its licensed driver and team changes, particularly NASCAR’s Sprint Cup Series, the success of the “Car of Tomorrow”, competition for MA products, prolonged recessionary conditions, and the success of MA management in achieving sustained profitability. Also, the various economic conditions and geopolitical factors discussed above in Risk Factor “The US and global economic slowdown and ongoing disruptions in the financial markets could have a significant adverse impact on consumer and corporate spending and our business in ways that we cannot currently predict. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results”, may continue to dampen consumer spending resulting in a negative impact on MA’s future revenues and profitability. The management of MA periodically assesses the realization of inventories, including the sufficiency of lower of cost or market provisions based on, among other factors, current inventory levels, assumptions about current and future demand, market conditions and trends that might adversely impact exposure to excess product levels and realization. MA’s ability to compete successfully and profitably depends on a number of factors both within and outside management’s control. The Company’s current and future carrying value of this equity investment could become impaired for changes in profitability, operating cash flows, and other factors as described in the preceding paragraph that could adversely impact recovery. Should future MA 22 Table of Contents inventory or long-lived assets become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge, the Company would be required to record its 50% share which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future financial condition or results of operations. Should the fair value of our equity investment in MA decline below its carrying value, and such decline was other than temporary, we would be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value to fair value, which could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. Different conditions or assumptions, or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of impairment evaluations. Resulting impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future financial condition or results of operations. The Company's analysis is subjective and based on assumptions, conditions and trends existing at time of evaluation. Our revenues depend on the promotional success of our marketing campaigns – Similar to many companies, we spend significant amounts on advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns for our speedways and other business activities. Such marketing activities include, among others, promotion of ticket sales, luxury suite rentals, hospitality and other services for our speedway events and facilities, and advertising associated with our wholesale and retail distribution of racing and other sports related souvenir merchandise and apparel, micro-lubricant® products, and Legends Car activities. There can be no assurance that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate revenues or profits. Government regulation of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us – The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of the alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry is generally subject to greater governmental regulation than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain of our sponsorship contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. The alcoholic beverage and tobacco industry has provided substantial financial support to the motorsports industry through, among other things, the purchase of advertising time, the sponsorship of racing teams and the past sponsorship of racing series such as the Busch (now Nationwide) Series, and generally are subject to greater governmental regulation than are other sponsors of our events. We are unaware of any proposed additional governmental regulation that would materially limit the availability to motorsports of promotion, sponsorship or advertising revenue from the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry. We cannot assure you that the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industry will continue to sponsor motorsports events, suitable alternative sponsors could be located, or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events sponsored by the alcoholic beverage industry at any of our facilities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverage products could adversely affect us. Our chairman owns a majority of SMI’s common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders – As of March 2, 2009, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, approximately 68% of the undiluted outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Smith will continue to control the outcome of substantially all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors. The purchase of NHMS significantly increased our outstanding indebtedness, and our current or future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, operations or ability to pay dividends, or prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under debt agreements – We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $686.5 million and the Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $149.1 million. Our substantial indebtedness and any future increases in our outstanding borrowings could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; • increase our costs or difficulties in refinancing or replacing our outstanding obligations, including the scheduled maturities of our Credit Facility in March 2010 and Senior Subordinated Notes in May 2013; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 23 Table of Contents • subject us to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase; • cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, our debt agreements contain financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limits or restricts our ability to borrow additional funds, make acquisitions, create liens on our properties and make investments. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Despite current indebtedness levels, the Company or new lines of business may be able to incur substantially more debt. In addition, we may be able to secure this additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks they and we now face could intensify. We may redeem some or all of the Senior Subordinated Notes at any time at annually declining redemption premiums ranging from 103.375% of par in fiscal years beginning June 1, 2008 to par after June 1, 2011, which could limit funds otherwise available for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. Restrictions imposed by terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing – The indenture for our Senior Subordinated Notes restricts, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to do any of the following: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions; • incur liens; • make specified types of investments; • apply net proceeds from certain asset sales; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate; • restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries; • sell equity interests of subsidiaries; • sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of assets; and • incur indebtedness that is subordinate in right of payment to any senior indebtedness and senior in right of payment to the Senior Subordinated Notes. Our Credit Facility contains more extensive and restrictive covenants than the indenture for the Senior Subordinated Notes. In addition to covenants of the type described above, the Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, as well as limits our acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments. The Company regularly monitors compliance with the various covenants under the Credit Facility and Senior Subordinated Notes. Future default on any of these covenants could result in default under, or an inability to undertake certain activities in compliance with, the underlying debt agreements. The Credit Facility and the Senior Subordinated Notes indentures contain cross-default provisions. Our ability to meet those covenants, financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. If there were an event of default under either loan agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral, if any, granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any senior indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the senior indebtedness and our other indebtedness. Because of the significance of our outstanding indebtedness, debt covenant compliance is important to our operations. Our Credit Facility is the primary source of committed funding from which we finance our planned capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, such as repurchases of our common stock, and working capital needs. Non-compliance with financial covenant ratios or other covenants could prevent us from being able to access further borrowings under our Credit Facility. A default under either the Credit Facility or Senior Subordinated Notes could likely trigger cross-default provisions allowing the lenders, in each case, to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements. If the lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the due dates of outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we could repay or refinance the accelerated amounts due. 24 Table of Contents Management believes the Company was in compliance with all applicable covenants under the Credit Facility and Senior Subordinated Notes as of December 31, 2008. At this time, management also believes the Company will remain in compliance with all applicable covenants for at least the next 12 months. However, although not anticipated at this time, significant negative adverse factors such as material tangible, intangible or other asset impairment charges or unforeseen declines in our future profitability or cash flows from ongoing recessionary conditions or other market factors, if large enough individually or in combination, could result in our inability to remain in compliance. These and other possible negative factors that could impact compliance are further described throughout this “Risk Factors” section. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Should we pursue further development and/or acquisition opportunities, the timing, size and success as well as associated potential capital commitments of which are unknown at this time, we may need to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financings. There can be no assurance that adequate debt and equity financing will be available on satisfactory terms or will be permitted under the covenants of the Senior Subordinated Notes or the Credit Facility. Failure to obtain further financing could have a negative effect on our business and operations. Our future borrowing costs on current outstanding or future indebtedness, including refinancing or replacing our current Credit Facility or other outstanding debt, or obtaining additional financing could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability – The ongoing disruptions in the financial and capital markets, including severely tightened credit markets, and stringent and costly borrowing conditions, could have a significant adverse impact on our future interest and other borrowing costs. Our future interest and borrowing costs on our current Credit Facility, any refinanced or replaced current outstanding indebtedness, or new additional financing could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial health and profitability. Interest and other borrowing costs have significantly increased for many companies in numerous industries, and may increase from current levels in the foreseeable future. The purchases of NHMS and KS significantly increased our outstanding indebtedness and leverage, and our current or future capital spending plans could further significantly increase our future outstanding debt, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial health and profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $686.5 million and the Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $149.1 million. Our Credit Facility is presently scheduled to mature in March 2010. Our operating results have benefited from relatively low interest rates on our floating rate Credit Facility and future increases, if significant, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results. While, at times, we use interest rate swaps to hedge our interest rate risk, we are currently unable to predict if or when the interest rates could change. Also, we are unable to predict if or when the currently tight credit markets may improve. While we believe we can successfully refinance or replace our current Credit Facility before maturity in March 2010, our significant indebtedness levels and leverage, along with difficult credit market conditions, could result in higher interest and other borrowing costs and more restrictive financial and other loan covenants under any new credit facility arrangement. As further discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our Credit Facility and Senior Subordinated Notes contain various restrictive financial and other covenants. Also, interest rates under our Credit Facility are based on specified tier levels that are adjustable periodically based upon certain ratios of funded debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). Our capital expenditures and borrowings in 2008 reduced the amounts by which we exceed minimum required compliance levels for certain restrictive financial covenants. Our current planned or unplanned future capital spending and possible increases in our future outstanding indebtedness, along with our current leverage, could further reduce the amounts by which we exceed minimum required covenant compliance levels and result in changes to our interest cost tier levels under the Credit Facility. Future changes in such surplus in our compliance levels or interest cost tiers could result in increased interest costs on current or future indebtedness, restricted or reduced borrowings and availability under the Credit Facility, and increased costs of borrowing for any new financing. Our funds otherwise available for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, could be limited. Also, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be 25 Table of Contents significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, or affected in other ways that we cannot currently predict. There can be no assurance that adequate Credit Facility or other debt refinancing or replacement will be available on satisfactory terms. Failure to obtain refinancing, replacement or additional financing could have material adverse affect on our business, operations and cash flows. Each or all of the factors could have a material adverse affect our financial health and profitability. Our oil and gas business incurs financial and operational risks different from those of our other operations – As further described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the fourth quarter 2008, the Company decided to discontinue its oil and gas operations primarily because of ongoing challenges and business risks in conducting these activities in foreign countries, particularly Russia. Based on impairment assessment, the estimated fair values of our consolidated foreign investments in oil and gas operations were found substantially diminished and written off as of December 31, 2008 through an impairment charge included in our 2008 loss from discontinued operations (see Item 9B below for related information). These oil and gas operations have involved business, credit and other risks different from the Company’s motorsports operations, and the ability to invest and compete successfully and profitably has been subject to many factors outside management’s control. Many of the operating risks and challenges have involved difficult or restrictive governmental situations when attempting to conduct business, access or transfer assets or funds, or facilitate production and similar activities in Russia and other foreign countries. For each of these investment interests, the Company may decide to spend, depending on perceived possibilities, or be required to spend certain additional amounts or take legal action to protect or preserve its interest to maintain or maximize the potential recovery value, and to protect other aspects of the Company’s oil and gas investments. Such additional expenditures, although presently undeterminable, could become material depending on the facts, circumstances and ultimate outcome of any attempted recovery or resolution. Those costs, if significant and ultimately not recovered, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future financial position, results of discontinued operations or cash flows. There are many risks generally associated with oil and gas related activities, including environmental, commodities, and similar risks common to such activities. Our oil and gas business has included exploration and production activities that have been less successful than previously anticipated. These activities can be impacted for many reasons including weather, cost overruns, dry wells, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Proven or unproven reserves may be less than originally expected or found not cost beneficial to extract. Successful drilling of a well does not ensure ultimate realization of sufficient profits or return on investments because of a variety of factors, including geological, market, geopolitical and other unforeseen factors. Additionally, unsuccessful wells can result in costs with no direct associated revenue streams. These investments involve a variety of operating risks, including: • fires, explosions, blow-outs, surface cratering, and casing collapse; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, and formation water; • natural disasters, such as earthquakes, and adverse weather conditions; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, and pipeline ruptures. Oil and gas business revenues and profits or losses, if any, can be affected by factors such as purchase price, sales price, transaction, unrecoverable and other operating costs. Realization of receivables, investments and other assets are subject to many factors outside management’s control. Factors that can adversely impact realization include changes or deterioration in customer financial condition and creditworthiness, current and future market demand, customary risks associated with oil and gas exploration, production and other business activities, regional and global market demand and economic conditions, including geopolitical situations in and surrounding specific countries or regions, government actions that restrict transactions, access to or transfers of assets or funds, other factors outside of management’s control when conducting operations in Russia and other foreign countries. Changes in income tax laws could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations – At December 31, 2008, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $279.1 million, after reduction for net deferred tax assets of $30.6 million. At December 31, 2008, valuation allowances of $33.8 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management is unable to determine that ultimate realization is more likely than not. These net deferred tax liabilities will likely reverse in future years and could negatively impact cash flows from operations in the years in which reversal occurs. Changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or method used in the accounting for income taxes, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could 26 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition – Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at LMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance. Land use laws may negatively impact our growth – Our development of new motorsports facilities (and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of existing facilities) requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities, and/or increase the costs of any such activities. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or other stock-based compensation, or the sale of shares held by key personnel – The market price for our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 1,728,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected by the issuance or sale of approximately 2,394,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans, or the sale of approximately 29,001,000 shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, including shares held by Mr. Smith, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 