Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in government policy could negatively impact demand for the Company’s services, impair its ability to price its services or increase its costs or liability exposure. Changes in United States and foreign government policies could change the economic environment and affect demand for the Company’s services. For example, changes in clean air laws or regulation of carbon dioxide emissions could reduce the demand for coal and revenues from the coal transportation services provided by BNSF Railway. Also, United States and foreign government agriculture tariffs or subsidies could affect the demand for grain. Developments and changes in laws and regulations as well as increased economic regulation of the rail industry through legislative action and revised rules and standards applied by the U.S. Surface Transportation Board in various areas, including rates, services and access to facilities could adversely impact the Company’s ability to determine prices for rail services and significantly affect the revenues, costs and profitability of the Company’s business. Additionally, because of the significant costs to maintain its rail network, a reduction in profitability could hinder the Company’s ability to maintain, improve or expand its rail network, facilities and equipment. Federal or state spending on infrastructure improvements or incentives that favor other modes of transportation could also adversely affect the Company’s revenues. The Company’s success depends on its ability to continue to comply with the significant federal, state and local governmental regulations to which it is subject. The Company is subject to a significant amount of governmental laws and regulation with respect to its rates and practices, taxes, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Governments may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which the Company operates without providing the Company with any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on its business. Federal legislation enacted in 2008 mandates the implementation of positive train control technology by December 31, 2015, on certain mainline track where intercity and commuter passenger railroads operate and where toxic-by-inhalation hazardous materials are transported. This type of technology is new and deploying it across BNSF Railway’s system and other railroads may pose significant operating and implementation risks and will require significant capital expenditures. As part of its railroad operations, the Company frequently transports chemicals and other hazardous materials, which could expose it to the risk of significant claims, losses and penalties. BNSF Railway is required to transport these commodities to the extent of its common carrier obligation. An accidental release of these commodities could result in a significant loss of life and extensive property damage as well as environmental remediation obligations. The associated costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity as the Company is not insured above a certain threshold. Further, the rates BNSF Railway receives for transporting these commodities do not adequately compensate it should there be some type of accident. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by the Company could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to the Company in the future if there is a catastrophic event related to rail transportation of these commodities. The Company faces intense competition from rail carriers and other transportation providers, and its failure to compete effectively could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment. Depending on the specific market, the Company faces intermodal, intramodal, product and geographic competition. This competition from other railroads and motor carriers, as well as barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may be reflected in pricing, market share, level of services, reliability and other factors. For example, the Company believes that high service truck lines, due to their ability to deliver non-bulk products on an expedited basis, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to compete for deliveries of non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. While the Company must build or acquire and maintain its rail system, trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any material increase in the capacity and quality of these alternative methods or the passage of legislation granting greater latitude to motor carriers with respect to size and weight restrictions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, a failure to provide the level of service required by the Company’s customers could result in loss of business to competitors. Changes in the ports used by ocean carriers or the use of all-water routes from the Pacific Rim to the East Coast or other changes in the supply chain could also have an adverse effect on the Company’s volumes and revenues. 2 Table of Contents Downturns in the economy could adversely affect demand for the Company’s services. Significant, extended negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions that impact the producers and consumers of the commodities transported by the Company may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity. Declines in or muted manufacturing activity, economic growth and international trade all could result in reduced revenues in one or more business units. Negative changes in general economic conditions could lead to disruptions in the credit markets, increase credit risks and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or liquidity. Challenging economic conditions may not only affect revenues due to reduced demand for many goods and commodities, but could result in payment delays, increased credit risk and possible bankruptcies of customers. Railroads are capital-intensive and may need to finance a portion of the building and maintenance of infrastructure as well as locomotives and other rail equipment. Economic slowdowns and related credit market disruptions may adversely affect the Company’s cost structure, its timely access to capital to meet financing needs and costs of its financings. The Company could also face increased counterparty risk for its cash investments, its derivative arrangements and access to its credit facility. Adverse economic conditions could also affect the Company’s costs for insurance or its ability to acquire and maintain adequate insurance coverage for risks associated with the railroad business if insurance companies experience credit downgrades or bankruptcies. Declines in the securities and credit markets could also affect the Company’s pension fund and railroad retirement tax rates, which in turn could increase funding requirements. The Company is subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations, which may impose significant costs on its business operations. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials; and the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. Changes to or limits on carbon dioxide emissions could result in significant capital expenditures to comply with these regulations with respect to BNSF Railway’s diesel locomotives, equipment, vehicles and machinery and its yards and intermodal facilities and the cranes and trucks serving those facilities. Emission regulations could also adversely affect fuel efficiency and increase operating costs. Further, local concerns on emissions and other forms of pollution could inhibit the Company’s ability to build facilities in strategic locations to facilitate growth and efficient operations. In addition, many land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the Company’s subsidiaries. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may continue to arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. The Company’s subsidiaries have been and may continue to be subject to allegations or findings to the effect that they have violated, or are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. The Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected as a result of any of the foregoing, and it may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination. Fuel supply availability and fuel prices may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Fuel supply availability could be impacted as a result of limitations in refining capacity, disruptions to the supply chain, rising global demand and international political and economic factors. A significant reduction in fuel availability could impact the Company’s ability to provide transportation services at current levels, increase fuel costs and impact the economy. Each of these factors could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity. If the price of fuel increases substantially, the Company expects to be able to offset a significant portion of these higher fuel costs through its fuel surcharge program. However, to the extent that the Company is unable to maintain, expand and ultimately collect under its existing fuel surcharge program, increases in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity. Severe weather and natural disasters could disrupt normal business operations, which would result in increased costs and liabilities and decreases in revenues. The Company’s success is dependent on its ability to operate its railroad system efficiently. Severe weather and natural disasters, such as tornados, flooding and earthquakes, could cause significant business interruptions and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. In addition, damages to or loss of use of significant aspects of the Company’s infrastructure due to natural or man-made disruptions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity for an extended period of time until repairs or replacements could be made. Additionally, during natural disasters, the Company’s workforce may be unavailable, which could result in further delays. Extreme swings in weather could also negatively affect the performance of locomotives and rolling stock. 3 Table of Contents The Company’s operational dependencies may adversely affect results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Due to the integrated nature of the United States’ freight transportation infrastructure, the Company’s operations may be negatively affected by service disruptions of other entities such as ports and other railroads which interchange with the Company. A significant prolonged service disruption of one or more of these entities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Acts of terrorism or war, as well as the threat of war, may cause significant disruptions in the Company’s business operations. Terrorist attacks and any government response to those types of attacks and war or risk of war may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Company’s rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act or acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues, which could have an adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. Such effects could be magnified if releases of hazardous materials are involved. Any act of terror, retaliatory strike, sustained military campaign or war or risk of war may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition by causing unpredictable operating or financial conditions, including disruptions of BNSF Railway or connecting rail lines, loss of critical customers or partners, volatility or sustained increase of fuel prices, fuel shortages, general economic decline and instability or weakness of financial markets. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by the Company could increase dramatically, the coverage available may not adequately compensate it for certain types of incidents and certain coverages may not be available to the Company in the future. The Company depends on the stability and availability of its information technology systems. The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. A significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures and the inability to protect corporate information assets against intruders or other operational difficulties. Although the Company has taken steps to mitigate these risks, including Business Continuity Planning, Disaster Recovery Planning and Business Impact Analysis, a significant disruption could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Additionally, if the Company is unable to acquire or implement new technology, it may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Company is subject to various claims and lawsuits, and increases in the amount or severity of these claims and lawsuits could adversely affect the Company’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. As part of its railroad operations, the Company is exposed to various claims and litigation related to commercial disputes, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability and other matters. Personal injury claims by BNSF Railway employees are subject to the Federal Employees’ Liability Act (FELA), rather than state workers’ compensation laws. The Company believes that the FELA system, which includes unscheduled awards and a reliance on the jury system, can contribute to increased expenses. Other proceedings include claims by third parties for punitive as well as compensatory damages, and a few proceedings purport to be class actions. Developments in legislative and judicial standards, material changes to litigation trends, or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Most of the Company’s employees are represented by unions, and failure to negotiate reasonable collective bargaining agreements may result in strikes, work stoppages or substantially higher ongoing labor costs. A significant majority of BNSF Railway’s employees are union-represented. BNSF Railway’s union employees work under collective bargaining agreements with various labor organizations. Wages, health and welfare benefits, work rules and other issues have traditionally been addressed through industry-wide negotiations. These negotiations have generally taken place over an extended period of time and have previously not resulted in any extended work stoppages. The existing agreements have remained in effect and will continue to remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act’s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods and the possibility of presidential intervention) are exhausted. While the negotiations have not yet resulted in any extended work stoppages, if BNSF Railway is unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements, it could result in strikes by the affected workers, loss of business and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity. 4 Table of Contents The unavailability of qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel, particularly engineers and trainmen, could negatively impact the Company’s ability to meet demand for rail service. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are vital to operations. Although the Company has adequate personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate the risk of not having sufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a negative impact on operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 