Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Dependence on Public Sector Customers. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from projects sponsored by federal, state and local governmental authorities. Consequently, any reduction in demand for our services by these governmental authorities for whatever reason, including a general economic slowdown or a continuation of the current trend toward reducing governmental spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government contracts are generally terminable at will, subject to a relatively small cancellation payment. Liability for Subcontractor Performance. We act as prime contractor on most of our construction projects and are therefore responsible for performance of the entire contract, including work assigned to subcontractors. Accordingly, we may be subject to substantial liability if a subcontractor fails to perform as required under the prime contract. Fixed Unit Price Risks. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from “fixed unit price” contracts under which we are committed to provide materials or services at fixed unit prices (such as dollars per cubic yard of earth or concrete). While fixed unit price contracts generally shift the risk of estimating the quantity of units required for a particular project to our customers, any increase in our unit cost over our unit bid price, whether due to inefficiency, faulty estimates, weather, inflation or other factors, must be borne by us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Variations in Quarterly Operating Results. The construction industry is seasonal, generally due to inclement weather occurring in the winter months. Accordingly, we generally experience a seasonal pattern in our operating results with lower revenue in the first and fourth quarters of each calendar year than other quarters. Quarterly results may also be affected by the timing of bid solicitations by governmental authorities and the stage of completion of major projects. Results for any one quarter, therefore, may not be indicative of results for other quarters or for the entire year. Potential Liability for Environmental Damages and Personal Injury. The construction industry is subject to significant risks of statutory, contractual and common law liability for environmental damages and personal injury. We may be liable for claims arising from our on-site or off-site services, including mishandling of hazardous 11 Table of Contents or non-hazardous waste materials, or environmental contamination caused by us or our subcontractors, the costs for which could be substantial, even if we exercised due care and complied with all relevant laws and regulations. We are also subject to worker and third party claims for personal injury resulting in substantial liability for which we may be uninsured. We carry insurance which we consider sufficient to meet regulatory and customer requirements and to protect our assets and operations. Nevertheless, an uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any inability to obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts required in connection with specific projects could impair our ability to bid on or complete such projects. An Inability to Secure and Permit Aggregate Reserves Could Negatively Impact Our Future Operations and Results. Tighter regulations for the protection of the environment and the finite nature of property containing suitable aggregate reserves are making it increasingly challenging and costly to secure and permit aggregate reserves. Although we have thus far been able to secure and permit reserves to support our business, it is likely to become increasingly difficult to do so, and there is no assurance that we will be able to secure and permit reserves in the future. We Are Subject to Significant Bonding Requirements. We are required to provide bid and/or performance bonds in connection with governmental construction projects. Our current bonding limits are approximately $200 million in the aggregate and $50 million per project, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these bonding limits. In addition, new or proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may require the posting of substantial additional bonds or require other financial assurances for particular projects. As a result of our bonding limits, we are restricted in the number and size of projects we may concurrently bid on, which may affect our results of operations. We Are Subject to Regulation. Our operations are subject to compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state and municipal authorities, including regulations covering labor relations, safety standards, affirmative action and the protection of the environment, including requirements in connection with water discharge, air emissions and hazardous and toxic substance discharge. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, amendments to current laws and regulations imposing more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There Are Risks Associated with Concentration of Construction Projects and Customers. Our operations are primarily situated in the states of Arizona and Nevada. The discontinuance of any projects in these states, a general economic downturn or a reduction, as a result of market conditions, in the number of projects let out for bid in these two states, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Intense Competition. Our business and industry are intensely competitive. We compete with a large number of small owner/operator contractors that tend to dominate smaller highway projects, together with larger, well capitalized regional and national contractors, when bidding on larger infrastructure projects. Moreover, due to currently favorable market conditions in our market areas, additional competition for projects continues to develop. Such additional competition could reduce our profit margins on our projects. Our Success Depends on Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel in a Competitive Environment. The single largest factor in our ability to profitably execute our work is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the resources available in the individual geographic areas in which we operate and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. Dependence Upon Executive Officers. Our operations are dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers. The loss of services of any of our executive officers, whether as a result of death, disability or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect upon our operations. We have employment agreements with our executive officers and carry key person insurance on their lives. Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations and Results. Strikes or work stoppages by labor unions or attempts to unionize our workers could have a significant negative impact on us. 12 Table of Contents Unavailability of Insurance Coverage Could Have A Negative Impact on Our Operations and Results. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and due to requirements to maintain specific coverage in our financing agreements and in most of our construction contracts. Although we have been able to obtain insurance coverage to meet our requirements in the past, there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will be available in the future. We Use Diesel Fuel, Asphalt Oil and Other Petroleum Based Products That Are Subject To Significant Price Fluctuations. These materials are used to run our equipment and are a significant part of the asphalt paving materials that are used in many of our construction projects. Although we can be partially protected by asphalt or fuel escalation clauses in some of our contracts, not all contracts provide such protection. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 