Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: We are Subject to the Reporting Requirements of Federal Securities Laws, Which Impose Additional Burdens. We are a public reporting company and accordingly subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, we expect these new rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs in the future and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly. We incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, including certain requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. We expect that these rules and regulations, in particular Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Like many smaller public companies, we face a significant impact from required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 currently requires management of public companies to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and will shortly require our independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls and the evaluation performed by management. As a public company, these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. If We Fail to Maintain an Effective System of Internal Controls, We May Not be Able to Accurately Report Our Financial Results or Prevent Fraud. As a Result, Current and Potential Shareholders Could Lose Confidence in Our Financial Reporting, Which Could Harm Our Business and the Trading Price of Our Stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide financial reports or prevent fraud, our business reputation and operating results could be harmed. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Your Ownership Could be Diluted by Future Issuances of Our Stock, Options, Warrants or Other Securities. Your ownership in the Company may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or the exercise of outstanding or to be issued options, warrants or convertible notes to purchase capital stock. In particular, we may sell securities in the future in order to finance operations, expansions or particular projects or expenditures. Our Certificate of Incorporation Authorizes our Board of Directors to Create New Series of Preferred Stock Without Further Approval by Our Stockholders, Which Could Adversely Affect the Rights of the Holders of our Common Stock or Delay or Prevent a Change in Control. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of our preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, our issuing preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. 12 Table of Contents Our Company’s Stock Price is Highly Volatile. The market price of our Company’s stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • changes in the construction and real estate industries; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or such guidance provided by us; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future issuances and sales of our securities; • trading and volume fluctuations; • other risk factors as discussed above; and • other unforeseen events. Stock markets in the United States often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as acts of terrorism, a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our Company’s stock. We Do Not Intend to Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Anti-Takeover Provisions Affecting Our Company Could Prevent or Delay a Change of Control that may be Beneficial to Its Shareholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, provisions of our Rights Agreement and provisions of applicable Nevada law and applicable Federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that holders of our Company’s securities may consider favorable. These provisions could: • delay, defer or prevent a change in control in our Company; • discourage bids for our Company’s securities at a premium over the market price; • adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our Company’s securities; or • impede the ability of the holders of our Company’s securities to change its management. We are Dependent on Public Sector Customers. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from projects sponsored by federal, state and local governmental authorities. Consequently, any reduction in demand for our services by these governmental authorities for whatever reason, including a general economic slowdown or a continuation of the current trend toward reducing governmental spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government contracts are generally terminable at will, subject to a relatively small cancellation payment. We are Responsible for Subcontractor Performance. We act as prime contractor on most of our construction projects and are therefore responsible for performance of the entire contract, including work assigned to subcontractors. Accordingly, we may be subject to substantial liability if a subcontractor fails to perform as required under the prime contract. A Significant Number of Our Project Contracts are Based on Fixed Unit Price. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from “fixed unit price” contracts under which we are committed to provide materials or services at fixed unit prices (such as dollars per cubic yard of earth or concrete). While fixed unit price contracts generally shift the risk of estimating the quantity of units required for a particular project to our customers, any increase in our unit cost over our unit bid price, whether due to inefficiency, faulty estimates, weather, inflation or other factors, must be borne by us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We Experience Weather and Seasonal Related Variations that May Affect Quarterly Operating Results. The construction industry is seasonal, generally due to inclement weather occurring in the winter months. Accordingly, we generally experience a seasonal pattern in our operating results with lower revenue in the first and fourth quarters of each calendar year than other quarters. Quarterly results may also be affected by the timing of bid solicitations by governmental authorities and the stage of completion of major projects. Results for any one quarter, therefore, may not be indicative of results for other quarters or for the entire year. Potential Liability for Environmental Damages and Personal Injury. The construction industry is subject to significant risks of statutory, contractual and common law liability for environmental damages and personal injury. We may be liable for claims arising from our on-site or off-site services, including mishandling of hazardous or non-hazardous waste materials, or environmental contamination caused by us or our subcontractors, the costs for which could be substantial, even if we exercised due care and complied with all relevant laws and regulations. We are also subject to worker and third party claims for personal injury resulting in substantial liability for which we may be uninsured. We carry insurance which we consider sufficient to meet regulatory and customer requirements and to protect our assets and operations. Nevertheless, an uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any inability to obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts required in connection with specific projects could impair our ability to bid on or complete such projects. An Inability to Secure and Permit Aggregate Reserves Could Negatively Impact Future Operations and Results. Tighter regulations for the protection of the environment and the finite nature of property containing suitable aggregate reserves are making it increasingly challenging and costly to secure and permit aggregate reserves. Although we have thus far been able to secure and permit reserves to support our business, it is likely to become increasingly difficult to do so, and there is no assurance that we will be able to secure and permit reserves in the future. We are Subject to Significant Bonding Requirements. We are required to provide bid and/or performance bonds in connection with governmental construction projects. Our current bonding limits are approximately $250 million in the aggregate and approximately $70 million per project, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these bonding limits. In addition, new or proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may require the posting of substantial additional bonds or require other financial assurances for particular projects. As a result of our bonding limits, we are restricted in the number and size of projects we may concurrently bid on, which may affect our results of operations. We are Subject to Regulation. Our operations are subject to compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state and municipal authorities, including regulations covering labor relations, safety standards, affirmative action and the protection of the environment, including requirements in connection with water discharge, air emissions and hazardous and toxic substance discharge. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, amendments to current laws and regulations imposing more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There are Risks Associated with Concentration of Construction Projects and Customers. Our operations are primarily situated in the states of Arizona and Nevada. The discontinuance of any projects in these states, a general economic downturn or a reduction, as a result of market conditions, in the number of projects let out for bid in these two states, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Intense Competition. Our business and industry are intensely competitive. We compete with a large number of small owner/operator contractors that tend to dominate smaller highway projects, and with larger, well-capitalized regional and national contractors, when bidding on larger infrastructure projects. Moreover, due to currently favorable market conditions in our market areas, additional competition for projects continues to develop. Such additional competition could reduce our profit margins on our projects. Our Success Depends on Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel in a Competitive Environment. The single largest factor in our ability to profitably execute our work is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the resources available in the individual geographic areas in which we operate and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. 14 Table of Contents Dependence upon Executive Officers. Our operations are dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers. The loss of services of any of our executive officers, whether as a result of death, disability or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect upon our operations. We have employment agreements with our executive officers and carry key person insurance on their lives. Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations and Results. Strikes or work stoppages by labor unions or attempts to unionize our workers could have a significant negative impact on us. Unavailability of Insurance Coverage Could Have a Negative Impact on Operations and Results. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and due to requirements to maintain specific coverage in our financing agreements and in most of our construction contracts. Although we have been able to obtain insurance coverage to meet our requirements in the past, there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will be available in the future. We Use Diesel Fuel, Asphalt Oil and Other Petroleum Based Products That Are Subject to Significant Price Fluctuations. These materials are used to run our equipment and are a significant part of the asphalt paving materials that are used in many of our construction projects. Although we can be partially protected by asphalt or fuel escalation clauses in some of our contracts, not all contracts provide such protection. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 