Risk Factors We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The following highlights some of these factors that have affected, or may affect, our operations. If our marketing efforts do not effectively maintain and expand our brand recognition, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our brand by consumers in our target markets are essential to our future success. To increase brand recognition, we believe we must continue to devote significant amounts of time and resources to advertising and promotions. These expenditures, however, may not result in a favorable increase in recognition of our brand or a sufficient increase in revenues to cover the advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if our brand recognition increases, our consumer base and our revenues may not increase, and may in fact decline, either of which would harm our business. Expanding our brand into new categories or territories may be difficult and expensive, and if we are unable to successfully expand into these categories or territories as expected, our brand may be adversely affected, and we may not achieve our planned sales growth. Our boxing-related sporting goods equipment business is the most established and best recognized portion of our business. Our growth strategy is founded substantially on the expansion of our brand into new categories or territories for, among other items, sporting goods equipment, apparel, footwear, eyewear, nutritional products, fragrances and other active lifestyle products. Products that we or our licensees introduce in these new markets may not be successful with the consumers we target. Our brand may also fall out of favor with our current sporting goods equipment customer base as we expand our products into new markets. In addition, if we or our licensees are unable to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to evolving consumer preferences, our sporting goods equipment sales and license revenues may not grow as fast as we plan or may decline and our brand image may suffer. Achieving market acceptance for new products will likely require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue. There can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake these efforts or that these efforts will sufficiently increase our sporting goods equipment sales and license revenues. Material increases in our selling, general and administrative expenses could adversely impact our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, we or our licensees may encounter difficulties in producing or finding manufacturers and retailers for new products, especially those with technical applications. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to consumer preferences and competing products. If we or our licensees are not able to efficiently ensure the manufacture of newly-developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail distribution, or if we or our licensees are unable to identify retailers who are able to effectively sell our products to consumers, we may not be able to recoup our investment in the development of new products or meet expectations for increased sales and license revenue. We also currently license technology necessary for the production of certain new products we plan to launch. Our ability to successfully develop and launch these products depends upon our maintenance of a satisfactory relationship with our technology providers. Even if we and our licensees develop and launch new products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new product may depend on the price charged for the product. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products that we or our licensees introduce could impede our growth, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brand, erode our competitive position and result in long-term harm to our business. We currently have an informal business arrangement with Title Boxing, L.L.C. to administer the Everlast catalog sales business our products and provide all order fulfillment of our catalog and e-commerce business, and any alteration to these arrangements could impact our sales and growth strategy. In 2006, Title Boxing sold $7.2 million in sales at retail of our products that were purchased by consumers through catalog and e-commerce orders. We believe catalog and e-commerce orders could be a source of significant sales and profitability growth in the future. We currently work with Title Boxing to distribute catalogs and manage our e-commerce orders, advertise our products and fulfill catalog and e-commerce orders for our products. Title Boxing also controls the mailing list of consumers who receive catalogs advertising our products and supports the maintenance and upgrade of our everlastboxing.com website. We do not currently have a formal written agreement with Title Boxing for the services it performs. Any alteration to our relationship with Title Boxing or Title Boxing’s ability to continue performing services for us could affect our sales and growth strategy due to Title Boxing’s control of the Everlast catalog mailing list and other services it performs for us and our inability to find a suitable replacement to perform the administrative and fulfillment functions for catalog and e-commerce orders of our products. We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We experienced rapid growth since our merger, and increased our net revenues from $33.4 million in 2002 to $51.9 million in 2006. We anticipate our rate of growth in the future will depend upon, among other things, the success of our growth strategies, which we cannot assure you will be successful. In addition, we may have more difficulty maintaining our prior rate of growth of revenues and profitability. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand, the market success of our and our licensees’ current and future products, competitive conditions and our ability to manage increased revenues, if any, and implement our growth strategy. In addition, we anticipate expanding our infrastructure and adding personnel in connection with our anticipated growth, which we expect will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and may cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as a percentage of revenue. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-term, operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not achieve our anticipated growth. 14 Table of Contents Future growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures and controls may need to be expanded. As a result, we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, which could distract our management team from our business plan. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage our anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. Failure to adapt to changes in consumer market trends may materially affect our business and results of operations. The market trends and consumer demands for sporting goods equipment and licensed products quickly change primarily due to the influence of fashion trends and developments of raw materials technology. Our sporting goods equipment business and our licensees’ ability to anticipate, gauge and respond adequately and timely to rapid changes in consumer demand and market trends materially affects our business and results of operations. If we or our licensees do not effectively adapt to the quick changes in customer demands and market trends, our operating results could be adversely affected. The failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our licensing business. Our success is dependent upon the continued protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we devote resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. We may be forced to incur substantial costs to protect our intellectual property and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our brand image may suffer. We are also susceptible to brand dilution from the counterfeiting of our products, which could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products or force us to incur expense in enforcing our rights. It is difficult and expensive to detect and prevent counterfeiting. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, counterfeiters may continue to violate our intellectual property rights by using our trademarks and imitating our products, which could potentially harm our brand, reputation, business, results of operation and financial condition. Our registered and common law trademarks have significant value and some of our trademarks are instrumental to our ability to create and sustain demand for and a market of our products. We cannot assure you that third parties, particularly in other countries, will not assert claims to our trademarks and other intellectual property or that we will be able to successfully resolve those claims. While we seek international protection of our intellectual property, the laws of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., if at all. In addition, we could be forced to defend legal actions taken against us relating to our use of trademarks, which, if our defense is unsuccessful, could render some of our trademarks or other intellectual property rights unenforceable and, regardless of the success of our defense, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert the efforts of our management. The need to defend against legal actions relating to our trademarks and intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We registered “Everlast” as a trademark in Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Benelux, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, European Union, Finland, France, Gaza District, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Macao, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, 15 Table of Contents Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Serbia and Montenegro, Singapore, Slovak Republic, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela and West Bank. As of March 19, 2007, we applied to register “Everlast” as a trademark in an additional 70 jurisdictions. There is a possibility that we have not applied to register the Everlast mark, our company logo or our marketing slogans in countries where we will do business in the future. If we fail to timely file a trademark application in any country, we will likely be precluded from doing so at a later date. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or destroy our brand, expose us to trademark liability and impair our ability to compete effectively. We believe our success may be enhanced by our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, and therefore elected to pursue patent protection for our products in the U.S. and other countries. Currently, we have been issued one U.S. patent. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, and competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our issued patents, or our registered designs or patent applications that proceed to issuance. We cannot predict how the patent claims in our issued patents, or any patents issued from any pending or future patent application will be construed, and these patents may not provide us with the ability to prevent the development, manufacturing, and marketing of competing products, or may be challenged by third parties on the basis of validity and enforceability. The failure of our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner’s ability to: • obtain capital; • manage its labor relations; • maintain relationships with its suppliers; • maintain the quality and marketability of products bearing our trademarks; • manage its credit risk effectively; • meet its financial obligations to us; and • maintain relationships with its customers. Although some of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A significant portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. The failure of our licensing partners’ to successfully operate their businesses or to perform in a manner consistent with our desired business practices could result in a decrease in our revenues generated from sales of our licensed products and the loss of goodwill which could impact our financial results and cause a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Failure to maintain and integrate licensing partners could harm our business. We depend on licensing partners for an increasingly significant part of our business. In 2005 and 2006, we added 45 new licensees to increase our total number of licensing arrangements to 88 as of December 31, 2006. Our license revenues, which have significant profit margins, organically grew 17.2% in 2006 and accounted for 23.6% of our total revenue. Our growth and revenues from our expanding licensing business are subject to all of the risks inherent in working with new partners, including our lack of an established working relationship with these new licensing partners and the uncertainty of our new partners’ abilities to develop and sell our products. Our agreements with certain licensing partners are important to the success and prospects of our business. In 2006, Jacques Moret, our domestic apparel licensee, represented 23.9% of our gross license revenue for the period. Although we believe in many circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, if any of our significant licensing partners do not meet their financial obligations to us or if any of these licensees decides not to renew or extend its existing agreement with us, our revenue and cash flows could be reduced substantially. Moreover, our inability to replace any of our existing licensing partners for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced license revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. Our women’s apparel license with Jacques Moret contains a 99-year exclusive renewal option which, if exercised, would provide us with a one-time royalty of $24.0 million, which may be less than the future discounted royalty cash flows over this 99-year term. Our U.S. women’s apparel license with Jacques Moret terminates on December 31, 2009 and, subject to certain conditions, may be renewed for two additional five-year terms for a minimum of $13.5 million in guarantees per term. In addition, subject to certain conditions, Jacques Moret has the option as of December 31, 2009 to convert the license agreement to a fully paid 99-year exclusive license for $24.0 million. Jacques Moret could execute this option at a time when the future discounted royalty cash flow stream exceeds this one time 99-year exclusive option, which could have a material adverse affect on our operations and profitability in years beyond 2010. We depend on certain key employees, the loss and replacement of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the services of Seth A. Horowitz, our chairman of our board, president and chief executive officer, as well as other key members of our management team. We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Horowitz effective November 28, 2005 until December 31, 2010 pursuant to which he agreed not to compete with us for 12 months following termination of his employment. The failure of our executives or any other members of our management team to effectively work together could prevent efficient decision-making, affecting product development and sales and marketing efforts which would negatively impact our ability to manage our business and operations. In addition, the loss of the services of Mr. Horowitz or other key managers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our future growth may largely depend on our ability to retain the services of Mr. Horowitz and the other members of our executive management team, as well as our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that these individuals can be attracted and retained because of the intense competition in our industry. While we take measures to protect our confidential information, if we were to lose a key employee, we cannot assure you that we would be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our procedures, practices, new product development or client lists. 17 Table of Contents The issuance of additional warrants to purchase shares of our common stock could adversely affect our financial results and the trading price of shares of our common stock. Pursuant to our agreement with Contender Partners LLC, we are required to issue warrants to purchase up to 4.95% of our currently outstanding common stock upon the initial network order of the third season of The Contender reality television series. The exercise price of the warrants shall be equal to 75.0% of the lesser of (a) the market price of our common stock on the date of issuance or (b) the 365-day average stock price of our common stock for the year prior to the date of issuance. If the third season of The Contender is initiated, we will be subject to a significant non-cash accounting expense related to the issuance that could adversely affect our statement of operations. Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and to the success of these retail customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products and to the success of these customers. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers’ orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. For 2006, The Sports Authority, Inc., Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Wal-Mart’s affiliate, Sam’s Club, accounted for approximately 14.2%, 11.7%, 6.7% and 5.0%, respectively, of our gross sporting goods equipment sales. We have no long-term contracts with these companies. Although we believe that our business relationships with these companies are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that these business relationships will continue to generate satisfactory sales in the future. We are also trying to expand our network of retailers carrying our products. We plan to focus on sporting goods stores, mass merchandisers, mid-tier retailers, fitness clubs and martial arts studios for our sporting goods equipment. If any of our major retail customers experiences a significant downturn in their business or fails to remain committed to our products or brand, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. In addition, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. If a significant customer to whom we extended credit experiences financial difficulties, our bad debt expense may increase relative to revenues in the future. Any significant increase in our bad debt expense relative to revenues would adversely impact our net income and cash flow and could affect our ability to pay our own obligations as they become due. Furthermore, many of our retail customers compete with each other, and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our retail customers by selling our products to consumers via our mail order catalog and the internet. If our retail customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with the customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. If we or our licensees do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we or our licensees may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers’ orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The market for our products is subject to cyclical variations and declines in performance, as well as fashion risks and rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions and other factors affecting demand. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer 18 Table of Contents demand, and if we or our licensees overestimate demand for our products, we or our licensees may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins and potentially devaluing our brand. Conversely, if we or our licensees underestimate consumer demand, we or our licensees could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Moreover, because our product line is limited, we may be disproportionately affected by cyclical downturns in the sporting goods industry, changes in consumer preferences and other factors affecting demand, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our production needs, exacerbating these risks. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part or by our licensees to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and these claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages, or other amounts, and may prevent, or otherwise impose limitations on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our current or planned new products. If we are forced to defend against third party claims, whether or not the claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time consuming litigation which could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages or ongoing royalty payments, or comply with other unfavorable terms. Additionally, if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, and this may prevent us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. Thus, these third party claims may significantly reduce the sales of our products or increase our cost of goods sold. Any reductions in sales or cost increases could be significant, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. The failure to comply with our quality control standards may have a material adverse effect on our business. We require our licensees to submit samples of products that are to be sold under exclusive license agreements and licensees who are not in compliance with our quality control standards are in breach of their license agreements. These sample licensed products are inspected by our management for quality and proper placement of our Everlast trademark. Licensees that do not comply with our quality or trademark standards are notified that they are in breach of their license agreement. No assurance may be made, however, that non-compliant licensees will be discovered by us and notified of the breach of their license agreement. There is also no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing the quality or trademark usage provisions of our license agreements. We have quality control procedures in effect at our manufacturing facility in Moberly, Missouri and at our third party manufacturers. Manufacturing supervisors inspect our sporting goods equipment for defects throughout both the manufacturing process and the finishing stages. No assurance may be made, however, that these quality control procedures will prevent all defects of manufacturing and finishing. Products introduced into the marketplace that do not meet our quality control standards may harm our brand image which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents Our business is subject to intense competition and could be adversely affected by the failure to effectively compete. Aggressive competition is found in the licensing and manufacturing of sporting goods brands. Some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to our products. Our competitors include most major athletic and sporting good companies, branded apparel companies and retailers with their own private labels. A number of competitors have: • significantly greater financial resources than we have; • more comprehensive product lines than we have; • longer-standing relationships with suppliers, manufacturers and retailers than we have; • greater distribution capabilities than we have; and • stronger brand recognition and loyalty than we have, and spend substantially more on product advertising and sales than we do. Our competitors’ greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better differentiate their products from ours, gain stronger brand loyalty than we can achieve, withstand periodic downturns in the apparel and sporting goods industries, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, our financial condition may deteriorate and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. Returns and chargebacks may have a material adverse effect on our business. Consistent with industry practice, we accept returns of products within a reasonable amount of time. Returns are allowed due to poor quality, defects in materials or workmanship. In addition to returns, customers deduct chargebacks from the purchase price for sales allowances, new store opening discounts and other marketing development funds, which in the opinion of management promotes brand awareness. Chargebacks have a dilutive effect on our business and results of operations since they reduce overall gross profit margins on sales. Due to low barriers to entry in our industry, the market is becoming more competitive and we cannot assure you that we will continue to experience the same level of returns or industry norm chargebacks in the future. Significant levels of returns or chargebacks could reduce our profitability resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. Potential liability exposure in our sporting goods equipment business may have a material adverse effect on the consumer demand for our products. Our sporting goods equipment is exposed to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims as boxing is a high-risk activity that involves physical contact. A judgment against us due to an alleged failure or defects of our sporting goods equipment could lead to substantial damage awards. We currently maintain product liability and excess liability umbrella insurance with maximum coverage of $2.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively, for each occurrence. If a successful claim is brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we invest resources in research and development and every attempt is made to ensure the safety of our products, claims against us may arise and, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, these claims may have a material adverse effect on the consumer demand for our products. 20 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the general economic cycle, a downturn in which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, our industry experienced substantial changes in its business cycle. Recessions, the states of the global, national and local economies and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects affect consumer spending habits and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we, as well as our competitors, sell to retailers who experienced financial difficulties during the past several years. If these financial patterns continue or worsen, we cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected. We believe that the sales of both sporting goods equipment and licensed products are slightly seasonal towards the third and fourth quarters of the year. Our products, taken as a whole, are sold year-round. While our results of operations may vary quarterly, we do not believe that these variations are material to our business. Consequently, our results of operations in any one quarter are not representative of the results of operations we expect for other quarters or for the full fiscal year. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by us in our manufactured products and in the price of materials used to manufacture our sporting goods equipment could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The price and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources (such as oil and electricity), increased freight costs, increased labor costs and weather conditions. If we are not be able to pass all or a portion of these higher raw materials prices on to our customers, or if demand decreases due to the higher costs or delays, our financial performance may suffer causing a material adverse effect on our business. If the U.S. continues to impose tariffs and import quota restrictions on products manufactured in China and we are unable to meet our manufacturing needs from countries other than China or from domestic sources, it could materially affect our gross margin and financial performance. The U.S. and the countries in which our products are produced or sold internationally imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. Under the provisions of the World Trade Organization, or WTO, Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, effective as of January 1, 2005, the U.S. and other WTO member countries eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. As a result of the eliminated quotas, we experienced lower costs on our imports of finished goods that benefited our margins and operating profitability in the second half of 2005. The U.S. recently imposed new quotas on certain categories of products that we import from China, including certain shirts and certain sportswear. If we are unable to meet our product needs from countries not affected by the U.S. restrictions or tariffs or from domestic sources, it could materially affect our gross margin and financial performance. Failure to control the costs for the products that we manufacture could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We manufacture approximately 30.0% of our products at our facility in Moberly, Missouri. There can be no assurance that the costs of products that we continue to manufacture in Moberly, Missouri can remain competitive with products sourced from third parties. We will also be required to absorb the 21 Table of Contents costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. These costs are primarily incurred in connection with the initial production of new products, although we may also experience increases in training costs when we initiate production of new products. Additionally, we may incur increased costs as a result of the introduction of new manufacturing equipment. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to risks and challenges, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers. Our inability to control the costs associated with our manufacturing operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we depend on third party manufacturers, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. We utilize third party manufacturers, primarily in Asia, to produce approximately 70.0% of our products as measured by gross sales of sporting goods equipment. We depend on these manufacturers’ ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third party manufacturers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third party manufacturers, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third party manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our business could suffer if our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We generally require our third party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer’s actions could result in negative publicity and may damage our reputation and the value of our brand and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of these materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our products. If the suppliers we rely on for key production materials were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, 22 Table of Contents if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for these materials or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a material adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. An interruption of the services of our manufacturing and distribution facility in Moberly, Missouri could negatively impact our sporting goods equipment business. We believe that our manufacturing and distribution facility in Moberly, Missouri will be adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. We further believe that additional manufacturing and distribution space will be available at our Moberly, Missouri plant in the event that we require additional capacity. If a situation arises that would cause the Missouri plant to close down or reduce our production, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. These situations may include fire, floods, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Furthermore, certain actions, occurring domestically or abroad, could lead to business disruptions, cancellations of customer orders or a general decrease in consumer spending. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing facility is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations limiting the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, particularly the federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Clean Air Act of 1970, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the federal “Superfund” program. We also are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. As part of our compliance efforts, we require all personnel working in high noise areas and those working in certain areas with high concentrations of dust to wear protective equipment. To the best of our knowledge, our manufacturing facility is currently in compliance in all material respects with existing environmental, workplace safety and worker health laws and regulations. We currently have no capital expenditures relating to satisfying environmental, workplace safety and worker health laws and regulations. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be in compliance with environmental, workplace safety and worker health laws and regulations. Failure to comply with environmental, workplace safety and worker health laws and regulations could result in significant expenses due to fines or compliance costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our business. We will incur significant time and expense in documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting, and any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Under existing issued rules and regulations, our independent auditors will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008, to attest to our officers’ assessment of our internal controls. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and our outside 23 Table of Contents auditors. Documentation and testing of our internal controls, which we have only undertaken to a limited extent in the past, will involve considerable time and expense, and may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our costs. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of any material weaknesses would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that internal controls are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our Securities and Exchange Commission reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. We may fail to successfully expand our distribution network or introduce our products both domestically and internationally, and this may cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to expand our distribution network and expand the sales of our products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing this strategy will depend on many factors, including: • the strength of the Everlast brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter; • our ability to attract and retain qualified licensees, distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels; • our ability to use and protect the Everlast brand, and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories; and • our ability to successfully enter and compete in markets and territories, especially internationally, where we have little distribution experience and where our Everlast brand is not as well known. If we are unable to successfully expand our distribution channels and sell our Everlast branded products internationally, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We conduct a significant portion of our activities outside the U.S., and therefore we are subject to the risks of international commerce. We use third party manufacturers located in foreign countries to produce approximately 70.0% of our sporting goods equipment and we and our licensees sell our products outside of the U.S. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • trade restrictions, tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; • increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices or other factors; • delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; 24 Table of Contents • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable and royalty payments; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings; • changing economic conditions; • restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; • changes in governmental policies and regulations; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; • expropriation and nationalization; • natural disasters; • difficulties encountered by our international licensees or us in staffing and managing foreign operations or international sales; • difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and • difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, our manufacturing activity outside of the U.S., including the production of our products by third party manufacturers, is subject to risks of poor infrastructure, shortages of equipment and labor unrest, in addition to those risks noted above. Once our products are manufactured, we may also suffer delays in distributing our products due to work stoppages, strikes or lockouts at the ports where our products arrive. Labor disruptions could result in product shortages and delays in distributing our products to retailers. These factors and the failure to properly respond to them could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, resulting in reduced sales and harm to our business. In addition, during 2006, we generated approximately $7.6 million, or 14.7% of our revenues outside of the U.S., and we expect to expand our international sales and marketing operations in the future. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stock stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue this stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our company, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. 25 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year; and • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 