Item 1A. Risk Factors This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our business, operating results, financial performance, and share price may be materially adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited, to the following risk factors, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results or from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us in this annual report on Form 10-K or in other reports, press releases or other statements issued from time to time. Additional factors that may cause such a difference are set forth elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. We do not have sufficient cash to fund the operation of our business. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations under our current operating plan into the second quarter of 2011 unless the timing of inventory purchases necessary to fulfill any orders for our nutritional products places additional constraint on our liquidity prior to that time, or unforeseen events impact our liquidity. Our current operating expenses reflect reductions in personnel, and other operating expenses implemented during 2010. However, our marketing, personnel and working capital requirements are expected to increase through 2011 as we expand our direct sales of nutritional products. We are actively managing our liquidity by limiting our clinical and development expenses to our lead products and supporting our existing alliances and collaborations. We have deferred all significant expenditures on new projects as well as major expenditures for our lead products pending additional financing or partnership support. We plan to continue efforts to enter into collaboration and licensing agreements for our product candidates, including extended release ibuprofen, that may provide additional funding for our operations. If we are unsuccessful with these efforts, we may have to significantly curtail or cease operations. If we cannot generate revenues sufficient to sustain our operations we will need to raise additional capital to fund operations, conduct clinical trials, continue research and development projects, and commercialize our product candidates. The timing and amount of our need for additional financing will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to raise needed capital quickly, at favorable pricing and on favorable terms; • the structure and timing of collaborations with strategic partners and licensees; • the timing of incurrence of the more significant costs items associated with the launch of the actual use study for our ibuprofen product; • the timing of an anticipated increase in our requirement for working capital related to any shipments of our nutritional products; • our timetable and costs for the development of marketing operations and other activities related to the commercialization of our product candidates; • our ability to timely obtain any shareholder approvals necessary to complete a financing transaction; • the progress of our research and development programs and expansion of such programs; • the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; and, • the prosecution, defense and enforcement of potential patent claims and other intellectual property rights. 21 Table of Contents Additional equity or debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, substantial additional dilution to our existing stockholders may result which could decrease the market price of our common stock due to the sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception of possible sales, could also impair our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, the terms of any equity financing may adversely affect the rights of our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through strategic alliance or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates, or to grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us, which could substantially reduce the value of our business. If we are forced to reduce or cease our operations we may trigger additional obligations, including contractual severance obligations aggregating as much as $599,000. In addition, we may be forced to liquidate assets at reduced levels due to our immediate liquidity requirements. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing, we would be unable to meet our obligations and we would be required to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our business operations, including the pursuit of licensing, strategic alliances and development of drug delivery programs. We have a history of substantial operating losses, may continue to incur substantial losses in the future and will require multiple financings to continue our operations, which would negatively impact our ability to run our business. We have a history of operating losses and we may to continue to incur significant losses in the future unless our direct nutritional sales efforts are successful. We do not plan to continue the costly process of simultaneously conducting clinical trials and preclinical research for multiple product candidates without a partner. Our product development program may not lead to commercial products, either because our product candidates fail to be effective, are not attractive to the market, or because we lack the necessary financial or other resources relationships to pursue our programs through FDA approval and commercialization. Our net losses are likely to continue as we advance preclinical research and clinical trials, apply for regulatory approvals, develop our product candidates, and support commercialization of our potential products. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of equity securities and we may not be able to generate positive cash flow in the future. We will need to seek additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or other sources of financing. If we fail to obtain necessary financing, our ability to run our business will be adversely affected and we may be required to reduce the scope of our research and business activity or cease operations. A significant number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for sale in the open market, which could drive down the market price for our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise capital. As of December 31, 2010, 49,816,073 shares of our common stock were outstanding, and there were 8,082,165 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and sales of a large number of shares by us or by existing stockholders could materially decrease the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. The risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could also encourage stockholders to engage in short sales of our common stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our common stock. Our efforts to sell nutritional products directly to retailers may not be successful. Our revenue strategy involves direct sales of nutritional products, primarily through retail channels. We do not own manufacturing facilities necessary to support these sales and will be dependent on third party 22 Table of Contents manufacturers to produce and in some cases distribute and otherwise administrate to the operation of our nutritional products business. Our direct sales efforts in the nutritional market will not be successful if, among other factors, we are unsuccessful in completing sales of our nutritional products or our manufacturing partners cannot manufacture the products in a quality, timely and cost effective manner. Additionally, our revenues may not support the substantial increase in working capital required to source and inventory product from third party manufacturers for later sale, and we do not have a credit facility to draw upon to support our working capital requirements. We lack experience selling products directly in the retail market and our level of staffing may be insufficient to effectively manage our nutritional business. The nutritional business involves multiple sales, manufacturing, logistics and account management functions. We have limited resources for performing these functions and limited experience in the retail market in which we are seeking to sell our nutritional products. Our lack of resources and inexperience may lead to failure of our strategy to sell our line of extended release nutritional products directly to retailers. We may fail to generate interest in our products from retailers, may be unable to conclude sales on favorable terms or may be unable to commit to the shipment volumes or delivery timeframes required by retailers. We have outsourced many of these functions to a third-party, but anticipate that to be successful we will need to additional staff-level personnel to manage the operations of our nutritional business. We may lack the financing to adequately staff our nutritional business, or may be unable to attract qualified employees on favorable terms. As a result we may be unable to obtain significant sales of our nutritional products, or may fail to meet the expectations of our retail customers, all of which would negatively affect our ability to generate revenue from our nutritional business. Our limited experience in preparing applications for regulatory approval of our products, and our lack of experience in obtaining such approval, may increase the cost of and extend the time required for preparation of necessary applications. Each OTC or pharmaceutical product we develop will require a separate costly and time consuming regulatory approval before we or our collaborators can manufacture and sell it in the United States or internationally. The regulatory process to obtain market approval for a new drug takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. We have had only limited experience in preparing applications and do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approvals. As a result, we believe we will rely primarily on third party contractors to help us prepare applications for regulatory approval, which means we will have less control over the timing and other aspects of the regulatory process than if we had our own expertise in this area. Our limited experience in preparing applications and obtaining regulatory approval could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval and could substantially increase the cost of applying for such approval. We may not obtain regulatory approval for our products, which would materially impair our ability to generate revenue. We may encounter delays or rejections during any stage of the regulatory approval process based upon the failure of clinical data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet the FDA’s requirements for safety, efficacy, quality, and/or bioequivalence; and, those requirements may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations. For example, after submission of a marketing application, in the form of an NDA or ANDA, the FDA may deny the application, may require additional testing or data, and/or may require post marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. In addition, the terms of approval of any marketing application, including the labeling content, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the marketability of products incorporating our extended release technology. Certain products incorporating our technology will require the filing of an NDA. A full NDA must include complete reports of preclinical, clinical, and other studies to prove adequately that the product is safe and 23 Table of Contents effective, which involves among other things, full clinical testing, and as a result requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In certain cases involving extended release versions of FDA-approved immediate release products, we may be able to rely on existing publicly available safety and efficacy data to support an NDA for extended release products under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA when such data exists for an approved immediate release or extended release version of the same active chemical ingredient. We can provide no assurance, however, that the FDA will accept a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, or that we will be able to obtain publicly available data that is useful. The Section 505(b)(2) NDA process is a highly uncertain avenue to approval because the FDA’s policies on Section 505(b)(2) have not yet been fully developed. There can be no assurance that the FDA will approve an application submitted under Section 505(b)(2) in a timely manner or at all. Our inability to rely on the 505(b)(2) process would increase the cost and extend the time frame for FDA approvals. If we cannot establish collaborative arrangements with leading individuals, companies and research institutions, we may have to discontinue the development and commercialization of our products. We have limited experience in conducting full scale clinical trials, preparing and submitting regulatory applications, or manufacturing and selling pharmaceutical products. In addition, we do not have sufficient resources to fund the development, regulatory approval, and commercialization of our products. We expect to seek collaborative arrangements and alliances with corporate and academic partners, licensors and licensees to assist with funding research and development, to conduct clinical testing, and to provide manufacturing, marketing, and commercialization of our product candidates. We may rely on collaborative arrangements to obtain the regulatory approvals for our products. For our collaboration efforts to be successful, we must identify partners whose competencies complement ours. We must also enter into collaboration agreements with them on terms that are favorable to us and integrate and coordinate their resources and capabilities with our own. We may be unsuccessful in entering into collaboration agreements with acceptable partners or negotiating favorable terms in these agreements. If we cannot establish collaborative relationships, we will be required to find alternative sources of funding and to develop our own capabilities to manufacture, market, and sell our products. If we are not successful in finding funding and developing these capabilities, we will have to terminate the development and commercialization of our products. If our clinical trials are not successful or take longer to complete than we expect, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our products. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of potential products utilizing our CDT platforms, we or our collaborators will be required to complete clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy, or in certain cases, the bioequivalence, of the products. However, we or our collaborators may not be able to commence or complete these clinical trials in any specified time period, or at all, either because the appropriate regulatory agency objects or for other reasons, including: • lack of partnership or financing support necessary to fund clinical trials; • unexpected delays in the initiation of clinical sites; • slower than projected enrollment of eligible patients; • competition with other ongoing clinical trials for clinical investigators or eligible patients; • scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians; • limits on manufacturing capacity, including delays of clinical supplies; and, • the failure of our products to meet required standards. 24 Table of Contents We also rely on academic institutions and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our product candidates. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted the monitoring and supervision on our own. Third parties may not perform their responsibilities for our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with a clinical trial protocol. Even if we complete a clinical trial of one of our potential products, the clinical trial may not indicate that our product is safe or effective to the extent required by the FDA or other regulatory agency to approve the product. If clinical trials do not show any potential product to be safe, efficacious, or bioequivalent, or if we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our products in development beyond those that we currently contemplate, we may be delayed in obtaining, or may not obtain, marketing approval for our products. Our product development costs may also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals, which could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and would impair our ability to commercialize our products. We face intense competition in the drug delivery business, and our failure to compete effectively would decrease our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our products. The drug delivery business is highly competitive and is affected by new technologies, governmental regulations, health care legislation, availability of financing, litigation and other factors. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. We are subject to competition from numerous other entities that currently operate or intend to operate in the industry. These include companies that are engaged in the development of extended release drug delivery technologies and products as well as other manufacturers that may decide to undertake in-house development of these products. Some of our direct competitors in the drug delivery industry include Valeant International, Inc., Endo Pharmaceuticals, SkyePharma PLC, Depomed, Elan Corporation, PLC, Flamel Technologies, Inc., Impax Laboratories, Inc., Labopharm, and KV Pharmaceutical Company. Many of the major pharmaceutical companies also have internal drug delivery programs that may compete directly with our business. Many of our competitors have more extensive experience than we have in conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many competitors also have competing products that have already received regulatory approval or are in late-stage development, and may have collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or obtain more effective patent protection, than we are able to develop, commercialize or obtain. As a result, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our products will achieve market acceptance, and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our products. If we fail to comply with extensive government regulations covering the manufacture, distribution and labeling of our products, we may have to withdraw our products from the market, close our facilities or cease our operations. Our products, potential products, and manufacturing and research activities are subject to varying degrees of regulation by a number of government authorities in the United States (including the Drug Enforcement Agency, FDA, Federal Trade Commission, and Environmental Protection Agency) and in other countries. For example, our activities, including preclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing, distribution, and labeling are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable authorities outside the United States. Also, our statements and our customers’ statements regarding dietary supplement products are subject to regulation by the FTC. The FTC enforces laws prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices, including false or misleading advertising. In recent years, the FTC has brought a number of actions challenging claims by nutritional companies. 25 Table of Contents Each OTC or pharmaceutical product we develop will require a separate costly and time consuming regulatory approval before we or our collaborators can manufacture and sell it in the United States or internationally. Even if regulatory approval is received, there may be limits imposed by regulators on a product’s use or it may face subsequent regulatory difficulties. Approved products are subject to continuous review and the facilities that manufacture them are subject to periodic inspections. Furthermore, regulatory agencies may require additional and expensive post-approval studies. If previously unknown problems with a product candidate surface, or the manufacturing or laboratory facility is deemed non-compliant with applicable regulatory requirements, an agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market, close the facility, and/or pay substantial fines. We also may incur significant costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to federal, state, local and other laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result and these damages could exceed our resources. Our ability to commercialize products containing pseudoephedrine may be adversely impacted by retail sales controls, legislation, and other measures designed to counter diversion and misuse of pseudoephedrine in the production of methamphetamine, an illegal drug. We will require approval from the FDA prior to anticipated commercialization efforts of our extended release formulation of pseudoephedrine. On March 10, 2006, Congress enacted the Patriot Act, which included the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005. Among its various provisions, this national legislation placed restrictions on the purchase and sale of all products containing pseudoephedrine and imposed quotas on manufacturers relating to the sale of products containing pseudoephedrine. Many states have also imposed statutory and regulatory restrictions on the manufacture, distribution and sale of pseudoephedrine products. Our ability to commercialize products containing pseudoephedrine and the market for such products may be adversely impacted by existing or new retail sales controls, legislation and market changes relating to diversion and misuse of pseudoephedrine in the production of methamphetamine. If our existing or new collaborations are not successful, we will have to establish our own commercialization capabilities, which would be expensive and time consuming and could delay the commercialization of the affected product. Extended release formulations of ondansetron are being developed for commercialization by a licensor of our technology and other products may in the future be developed and commercialized in collaboration with other corporate partners. Under these collaborations, we may be dependent on our collaborators to fund all or a portion of development, to conduct clinical trials, to obtain regulatory approvals for, and manufacture, market and sell products using our CDT platforms. We have very limited experience in manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing these capabilities. Our existing collaborations may be subject to termination on short notice. If any of our collaborations are terminated, we may be required to devote additional resources to the product covered by the collaboration, seek a new collaborator on short notice or abandon the product. The terms of any additional collaborations or other arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Our collaborations or other arrangements may not be successful because of factors such as: • our collaborators may have insufficient economic motivation to continue their funding, research, development, and commercialization activities; 26 Table of Contents • our collaborators may discontinue funding any particular program, which could delay or halt the development or commercialization of any product candidates arising out of the program; • our collaborators may choose to pursue alternative technologies or products, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • our collaborators may lack sufficient financial, technical or other capabilities to develop these product candidates; • we may underestimate the length of time that it takes for our collaborators to achieve various clinical development and regulatory approval milestones; or, • our collaborators may be unable to successfully address any regulatory or technical challenges they may encounter. We have no manufacturing capabilities and will be dependent on third party manufacturers. We do not have commercial scale facilities to manufacture any products we may develop in accordance with requirements prescribed by the FDA. Consequently, we have to rely on third party manufacturers of the products we are evaluating in clinical trials. If any of our product candidates receive FDA or other regulatory authority approval, we will rely on third-party contractors to perform the manufacturing steps for our products on a commercial scale. We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA and other regulatory authorities, as applicable, must approve any replacement manufacturer, including us, and we or any such third party manufacturer may be unable to formulate and manufacture our drug products in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical and commercial needs. We will be dependent upon these third parties to supply us in a timely manner with products manufactured in compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs) or similar manufacturing standards imposed by foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. While the FDA and other regulatory authorities maintain oversight for cGMP compliance of drug manufacturers, contract manufacturers may at times violate cGMPs. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. We currently rely on third party manufacturers for the production of a number of our product candidates. If these third party manufacturers are unable to provide adequate products and services to us, we could suffer a delay in our clinical trials and the development of or the submission of products for regulatory approval. In addition, we would not have the ability to commercialize products as planned and deliver products on a timely basis, and we may have higher product costs or we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products. If we fail to protect and maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property, our business, financial condition and ability to compete would suffer. We principally rely on patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and contract law to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own or have exclusive rights to several U.S. patents and patent applications and we expect to apply for additional U.S. and foreign patents in the future. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, nutritional, and bio-pharmaceutical firms, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal issues are largely unresolved. The coverage claimed in our patent applications can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, and the claims allowed on any patents or trademarks we hold may not be broad enough to protect our technology. In addition, our patents or trademarks may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the patents of others may impede our collaborators’ ability to commercialize the technology covered by our owned or licensed patents. Moreover, any current or future issued or licensed patents, or trademarks, or existing or future trade secrets or know-how, may not afford sufficient protection against competitors with similar technologies or processes, and the possibility exists that certain of our already issued patents or trademarks may infringe upon third party patents or trademarks or be designed around 27 Table of Contents by others. In addition, there is a risk that others may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes that are the same as, or substantially equivalent or superior to ours, or become available in the market at a lower price. There is a risk that we have infringed or in the future will infringe patents or trademarks owned by others, that we will need to acquire licenses under patents or trademarks belonging to others for technology potentially useful or necessary to us, and that licenses will not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot assure you that: • our patents or any future patents will prevent other companies from developing similar or functionally equivalent products or from successfully challenging the validity of our patents; • any of our future processes or products will be patentable; • any pending or additional patents will be issued in any or all appropriate jurisdictions; • our processes or products will not infringe upon the patents of third parties; or, • we will have the resources to defend against charges of patent infringement by third parties or to protect our own patent rights against infringement by third parties. We may have to litigate to enforce our patents or trademarks or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Litigation could be very costly and divert management’s attention. An adverse outcome in any litigation could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and ability to conduct business based on key technologies. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators. There is a risk that these agreements may be breached, and that the remedies available to us may not be adequate. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to or be independently discovered by others. Significant expenses in applying for patent protection and prosecuting our patent applications will increase our need for capital and could harm our business and financial condition. We intend to continue our substantial efforts in applying for patent protection and prosecuting pending and future patent applications both in the United States and internationally. These efforts have historically required the expenditure of considerable time and money, and we expect that they will continue to require significant expenditures. If future changes in United States or foreign patent laws complicate or hinder our efforts to obtain patent protection, the costs associated with patent prosecution may increase significantly. If we fail to attract and retain key executive and technical personnel we could experience a negative impact on our ability to develop and commercialize our products and our business will suffer. The success of our operations will depend to a great extent on the collective experience, abilities and continued service of relatively few individuals. We are dependent upon the continued availability of the services of our employees, many of whom are individually key to our future success. For example, if we lose the services of Stephen J. Turner, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Richard M. Levy, we could experience a negative impact on our ability to develop and commercialize our CDT technology, our financial results, and our stock price. We have been forced to terminate our research and development staff. The loss of the services of key members of this staff could substantially impair our ongoing research and development and our ability to obtain additional financing. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our personnel. 28 Table of Contents Our success also significantly depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition for personnel in the drug delivery industry. To compete for personnel, we may need to pay higher salaries and provide other incentives than those paid and provided by more established entities. Our limited financial resources may hinder our ability to provide such salaries and incentives. Our personnel may voluntarily terminate their relationship with us at any time, and the process of locating additional personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy could be lengthy, costly, and disruptive. If we lose the services of key personnel, or fail to replace the services of key personnel who depart, we could experience a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price. Future laws or regulations may hinder or prohibit the production or sale of our products. We may be subject to additional laws or regulations in the future, such as those administered by the FDA or other federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities. Laws or regulations that we consider favorable, such as the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, DSHEA, may be repealed. Current laws or regulations may be interpreted more stringently. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations or interpretations, nor can we predict what effect they may have on our business. Possible effects or requirements could include the following: • the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards; • the recall or discontinuance of certain products unable to be reformulated; • imposition of additional record keeping requirements; • change in the health coverage available to consumers, which may affect their buying habits; • expanded documentation of the properties of certain products; or, • expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation. Any such requirement could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which pertains to controls relating to the process of accounting for warrants. See “Item 9A—Controls and Procedures—Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” As of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, we have implemented remedial measures related to the identified material weakness. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are ongoing and also apply to future years. We expect that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to evolve as our business develops. Although we are committed to continue to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that in the future additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If our efforts to remediate the weakness identified are not successful or if other deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, additional restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 29 Table of Contents Our delisting from the NYSE Amex Exchange may adversely impact the liquidity and price of our common stock. In January 2011, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from the NYSE Amex Exchange after concluding that we could not reasonably expect to regain compliance with the continued listing requirements of the Exchange within the extensions period afforded to us. Our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The delisting of our common stock from NYSE Amex could further depress our stock price, substantially limit the liquidity of our common stock and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting may also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest in our Company and fewer business development opportunities from strategic partners. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this report, including: • general conditions in the healthcare industry; • general conditions in the consumer products industry; • general conditions in the financial markets; • our failure or the failure of our collaborative partners, for any reason, to obtain FDA approval for any of our products or products we license; • for those products that are ultimately approved by the FDA, the failure of the FDA to approve such products in a timely manner consistent with the FDA’s historical approval process; • our failure, or the failure of our third-party partners, to successfully commercialize products approved by the FDA; • our failure to generate product revenues and corresponding profits; • problems incurred by our primary third party suppliers/vendors; • our ability to exercise/redeem certain outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock; • the sale of additional debt and/or equity securities by us; • announcements by us or others of the results of preclinical testing and clinical trials and regulatory actions, technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products; and • developments or disputes concerning patent or any other proprietary rights. Certain provisions in our charter documents and otherwise may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire control of our company, which may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority, without obtaining stockholder approval, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also provide for special advance notice provisions for proposed business at annual meetings. In addition, Delaware and Washington law 30 Table of Contents contain certain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a hostile takeover of our company. Further, we have a stockholder rights plan that is designed to cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire our company without approval of our board of directors, and thereby make a hostile takeover attempt prohibitively expensive for a potential acquirer. These provisions, among others, may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company, even if stockholders may consider such a change in control to be in their best interests, which may cause the price of our common stock to suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 