Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. In addition to the following risk factors, we refer you to those risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10K and in various of our publicly reported documents. Further risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, could also impair our business operations. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read "forward-looking" statements elsewhere in this Form 10K. These are statements that relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. Generally, the words "anticipate," ”believe,” "expect," "intend" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those associated with the forward-looking statements. We have continuing capital requirements and a history of losses. Historically, our cash requirements have exceeded our cash flow from operations. This has been due to costs associated with developing and opening restaurants, as well as the operating performance of certain restaurants. We have experienced operating and net losses during the majority of the recent prior years. As of December 30, 2007, we had a working capital deficiency of $4,712,000 and a cash balance of $458,000. In 2007, we incurred a net loss of $4,400,000, and we invested $439,000 in property and equipment. As of December 31, 2006, we had a working capital deficiency of $4,446,000 and a cash balance of $734,000. In 2006, we incurred a net loss of $3,002,000, and we invested $1,774,000 in property and equipment. In addition, in 2007, we experienced a significant decline in sales and customer traffic. There are no assurances that our strategies will reverse the recent trend in sales and customer traffic declines as necessary to meet our contemplated cash flow requirements. There can be no assurances that further losses will not be experienced in the future. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” Our current independent registered public accounting firm, in their report with respect to our financial statements as of December 30, 2007 includes a “going concern” opinion. As discussed in Note 1 to the audited financial statements, we have incurred significant losses for the years ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, have an accumulated deficit, and have a secured promissory note which is due in May 2008. Sufficient liquidity to satisfy working capital requirements, make the scheduled debt reduction under the promissory note if the maturity date is not extended, and repay other debt obligations; is dependent primarily on the realization of cash flow from operations and obtaining alternative financing sources. There can be no assurances that these initiatives will be successful. Because of these conditions, our independent registered public accounting firm has raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Operating expenses may increase. Since 2005, we have incurred annual increases in labor costs due to the Florida minimum wage rate increase. Many of our commodity and operating costs have increased in 2007, generally stemming from escalating fuel costs. The cost of utilities continues to rise due to increasing energy costs. Insurance expenses increased mostly as a result of the hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. However, we have seen recent moderation in insurance costs, to include reductions in costs in 2008. Due to the significant increase in real estate market values throughout Florida, we also have incurred significant increases in real estate taxes generally over the past several years. We have seen a moderation in recent real estate tax trends, as the real estate market in Florida has significantly weakened relative to the state’s economy. In addition, certain of our leases are coming up for renewal or expiring over the next several years. Increases in rent expense may occur as a result of renewing current leases or negotiating new lease terms. There can be no assurances that any future increases in menu pricing or guest traffic will be adequate to compensate for these and any other operating cost increases. 12 We may be unable to repay certain of our debts when they mature. Certain of our investors have funded a $1,440,000 line of credit which matures in May 2008. In March 2007, the maturity date of the line of credit was extended from May 23, 2007 to May 23, 2008 at a fee of 7% of the $1,440,000 borrowed. There are no assurances that such investors will continue to extend the maturity date on this note or that adequate financing options will be available to us when necessary or at terms that we find acceptable. We have a promissory note outstanding through Colonial Bank, for the financing of our joint venture restaurant, located in Melbourne, Florida. As of December 30, 2007, we owed $607,000 on the principal balance of this note, which matures in September 2012. Additionally, on January 16, 2008, we entered into a line of credit agreement with Colonial Bank, pursuant to which we have borrowed $140,000 of the $350,000 available under the credit line. The line of credit facility matures on September 19, 2008 and is secured by a $1,050,000 letter of credit with Food and Entertainment Co., LTD. Each of the notes relating to the restaurant property, the $1,440,000 line of credit, and the $350,000 line of credit are secured by certain of our assets. Any failure by us to pay these debts as they mature would allow holders of these debts to seize and sell certain of our assets to satisfy the amounts owed to them. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and general business credits to reduce future tax payments may be further limited if there are additional changes in ownership of Shells. As of December 30, 2007, for federal income tax purposes, we had approximately $12,317,000 of net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, available to reduce taxable income in future years and approximately $3,969,000 of general business credits to carry forward. We believe that a substantial amount of these NOLs and credits are currently subject to an annual limitation under sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as a result of ownership changes in 2002 and our sale of additional equity in 2005 to persons previously unassociated with our company. We estimate the limit to NOLs and credit carryforwards that may be used against taxable income to be approximately $75,000 per year for NOLs occurring prior to the 2002 ownership change, and $665,000 per year for NOLs occurring prior to the 2005 ownership change. Any portion of the annual limitation amounts not utilized in any year will carry forward to the following year, subject to a 15 to 20 year limitation. Any additional sale of equity may result in further restricting our ability to utilize NOLs or credit carryforwards. Substantial dilution to our stockholders is possible. As of March 10, 2008, there were outstanding 23,538,000 shares of common stock, and warrants, options or other convertible securities outstanding to purchase an additional 12,434,000 shares of common stock, including options and warrants representing 10,570,000 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $1.04 per share. Over the last five years, we raised $11.3 million through issuing securities, including warrants and preferred stock convertible as of March 10, 2008 into 7,614,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 10, 2008, 18,493,000 shares of our common stock have been issued relating to these warrants and preferred stock. Many of these securities have anti-dilution protection provisions, which will become operative upon our issuance of additional securities at below specified dollar amounts. In March 2005, we amended our certificate of incorporation to increase the total number of authorized shares of our common stock from 20,000,000 shares to 40,000,000 shares. Subsequently, in June 2005, our stockholders approved a further increase of the total number of authorized shares of our common stock from 40,000,000 shares to 58,000,000 shares. We may require additional financing in 2008. Certain forms of capital raising may result in substantial additional dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, we expect to issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock or stock options to any person hired as our new Chief Executive Officer. 13 Control is concentrated among a few individuals. Frederick R. Adler, James Adler, Bruce Galloway and Trinad Capital, significant stockholders, together with members of our board of directors and executive management team, are beneficial owners of record, in the aggregate, of approximately 62.9% of our outstanding voting shares, consisting of Common Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, as of March 10, 2008 and are able to control the business and affairs of our company, including the election of our directors and decisions regarding any proposed dissolution, merger or sale of our assets. We depend on key personnel. Our success is largely dependent upon our executive management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one of our executives or other key personnel could materially adversely affect us. Our success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management restaurant industry personnel. Operating results may require the closure of additional restaurants. If we experience prolonged periods of unfavorable operating results at any existing restaurants, view the prospects for a restaurant to be less than satisfactory, or do not renew a restaurant lease due to its operating results, we may elect to close or relocate restaurants. The lack of success or closing of any of our restaurants could have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. We closed 16 restaurants during 2001, of which 14 were located in the Midwest and two were located in Florida. We closed one restaurant in 2002, three restaurants in 2004 and one restaurant in 2005. Additionally, in 2005, we relocated one restaurant to a higher volume location and opened two new restaurants. In 2007, we closed two restaurants. We continually monitor the operations and financial performance with respect to certain of our other existing restaurants. Many of our costs are fixed, and a reduction in the number of units open for operation results in decreased sales leverage. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally because of our geographic concentration in Florida. We experience significant fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter operating results because of factors including the seasonal nature of our business and weather conditions in Florida, which may be severe periodically and may include damaging hurricanes. Our restaurants are all located in Florida and can be affected by the health of Florida’s economy in general, and of the tourism industry in particular, which can further be affected by anticipated world events, as well as economic trends. In addition, while the majority of our restaurants are located primarily in residential areas in Florida, many of our restaurants are located in seasonal tourist areas. Our restaurant sales generally increase from January through April and June through August, the peaks of the Florida tourism season, and generally decrease from September through mid-December. In addition, because of our present geographic concentration, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants or adverse weather conditions could have a more pronounced adverse affect on our operating results than if our restaurants were more geographically dispersed. Adverse weather conditions or a decline in tourism in Florida, or in general economic conditions, which would likely affect the Florida economy or tourism industry, particularly during the time of peak sales, could materially adversely affect our operations and prospects. Because of the seasonality of our business, our results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full year. 14 Future hurricanes may be a risk to us. In recent years, the effects of hurricanes on the local economies in Florida and other states in the Gulf of Mexico region have been significant. During the third and fourth quarters of 2004 and the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred substantial business and property losses as a result of several hurricanes that struck Florida. Property damage or interruption of operations from any future hurricanes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Revenue from international operations may not be realized. In December 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell our marks and system in certain middle eastern countries to Food and Entertainment Co., LTD. Concurrent with the sale of our service marks, we entered into a ten year technical consulting and services agreement with Food and Entertainment Co., LTD for which we are to receive 1% of gross sales from the Shells restaurants operated by Food and Entertainment Co. While we require that Food and Entertainment Co. maintain a non-revocable letter of credit sufficient to protect our ability to collect, we cannot assure you that the amounts provided under the letter of credit will be adequate to fully compensate us under certain conditions of default, if incurred. We can not assure you that international cultural, economic or political conditions will not interrupt the operations of Shells international locations or affect the enforceability of the technical consulting and services agreement. The supply and quality of our seafood may fluctuate. In recent years, the availability of certain types of seafood has fluctuated. This has resulted in a corresponding fluctuation in prices. We maintain both long and short-term contracts with the majority of our suppliers. We contract products direct with the manufacturer, where appropriate. In addition, we have an agreement which expires on October 31, 2008 with Performance Food Group to warehouse and distribute, on a cost plus agreement, the majority of our seafood supplies and to procure, distribute and store other supplies for us. We believe that our relationships with Performance Food Group and our other suppliers are satisfactory and that alternative sources are readily available. However, the loss of our relationship with Performance Food Group or other suppliers could materially adversely affect us. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reach an agreement upon contract renegotiation with Performance Food Group on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Some species of seafood have become subject to adverse publicity because of claims of contamination by lead, mercury or other chemicals that may exist in the ocean or in an aquaculture environment. This can adversely affect both market demand and supply for these food products. Customer demand may also be negatively impacted by reports of medical or other risks resulting from eating particular types of seafood. We maintain a continuous quality assurance inspection program for all of our seafood and protein purchases. However, we cannot assure you that seafood contamination or consumer perception of inadequate seafood quality, in the industry in general or as to us specifically, will not have a material adverse affect on us. Our failure to obtain adequate supplies of seafood, which meet our quality specifications at acceptable prices or problems or difficulties resulting from the contamination of seafood, in general, or at any of our restaurants in particular, will have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Food borne illness may occur in the market place, or to us specifically. Even though we maintain a strict quality assurance inspection program, we cannot assure you that these procedures will successfully detect food contamination. We can also not assure you that a food borne illness occurring anywhere else in the market place will not have a material adverse affect on our business and profitability. Historically, seafood may be particularly susceptible to these kinds of food-borne illnesses. 15 Our expenses for food commodity costs fluctuate. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and to react to increases in food costs. We have limited control over these costs, many of which have increased in 2007 due to rising costs of manufacturing and transportation. Specifically, our dependence on frequent deliveries of seafood, produce, dairy and other products means we are at greater risk of shortages or interruptions in supply because of adverse weather or other conditions. This could adversely affect the availability and cost of these items. Also, substantial price increases imposed by our suppliers in the absence of alternative sources of supply in a timely manner, could have a material adverse affect on us. We have been able to anticipate and react to fluctuations in food costs by: • adjusting selected menu prices; • purchasing seafood directly from numerous suppliers; and • promoting alternative menu selections in response to price and availability of supply. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to anticipate and respond to supply and price fluctuations, or that we will not be subject to significantly increased costs. A shortage of available seafood at prices that are acceptable to us could cause our cost of sales to increase. Because of our value oriented pricing structure, this could materially adversely affect our operations and profitability. In addition, seafood suppliers and processors are subject to a program of inspection by the Food and Drug Administration. Government tariffs may also be applied to certain imported products. These programs may increase our seafood costs and / or decrease availability as seafood suppliers’ and processors’ delivered costs in complying with these programs may increase. Our industry is highly competitive. The restaurant industry, particularly the full-service casual dining segment, is highly competitive. We compete in the areas of: • price; • service; • food quality, including taste, freshness, healthfulness and nutritional value; • location; and • atmosphere. We have numerous well-established competitors, some of which dominate the industry. These competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have achieved significant brand name and product recognition. They also engage in extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter new markets or introduce new products. Our competitors include national, regional and local full-service casual dining chains, many of which specialize in or offer seafood products. We believe that the full-service casual dining segment is likely to attract a significant number of new entrants, some offering seafood products. We also expect to face competition from a broad range of other restaurants and food service establishments. These include full-service, quick-service and fast casual food restaurants, which specialize in a variety of menu offerings. In addition, the full-service restaurant industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new food products, which are accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In recent years, numerous companies in the full-service restaurant industry have introduced products, including seafood, intended to capitalize on growing consumer preference for food products that are, or are perceived to be, healthy, nutritious, and low in calories, carbohydrates or fat content. We expect that we will be subject to increasing competition from companies whose products or marketing strategies address these consumer preferences. While we believe that we offer a broad variety of quality seafood products, we cannot assure that: 16 • consumers will be able to distinguish our products from competitive products; • substantially equivalent food products will not be introduced by our competitors; or • we will be able to compete successfully. Many factors affect our industry. We must respond to various factors affecting the restaurant industry, including: • changes in consumer preferences, tastes and eating habits; • demographic trends and traffic patterns; • increases in food, labor and other operating costs; • inflation; and • national, regional and local economic conditions and the affect of world events, in general, and the tourism industry in particular. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate. We maintain insurance, including insurance relating to personal injury, in amounts, which we currently consider adequate. Nevertheless, a partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful, could materially adversely affect us. Additionally, the insurance market in Florida, particularly property and business interruption, had sustained significant losses during 2005 and 2004 hurricane seasons. Adequate insurance coverage has become more difficult to acquire and the costs associated with such coverage may become economically prohibitive. If we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage, or if we do not have sufficient cash or financing available to pay the insurance premiums, it could cause us to be uninsured for certain perils which could materially affect us. We face risks associated with government regulation. We are subject to extensive state and local government regulation by various agencies, including: • state and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environmental regulations; • various regulations relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • regulations relating to sanitation, disposal of refuse and waste products; • regulations relating to public health; and • safety and fire standards. Our restaurants are inspected periodically by governmental agencies to ensure conformity with these regulations. The suspension of, or inability to renew a license at an existing restaurant would adversely affect our operations. A significant percentage of our revenue and operating income comes from sales of alcoholic beverages. State and local regulation of the sale of alcoholic beverages require us to obtain a license or permit for each of our restaurants. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain a license to serve liquor could materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, our failure or difficulty in obtaining required licensing or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent new restaurant openings. 17 Restaurant operating costs are also affected by other government actions, which are beyond our control, including increases in: • minimum hourly wage requirements; • workers compensation insurance rates; • health care insurance costs; • other insurance costs, including general liability and property; and • unemployment and other taxes. In May 2005, the minimum wage rate in Florida increased by $1.00 per hour. Tipped employees also received the $1.00 per hour wage increase under this new law. In January 2006, 2007 and 2008, the minimum wage rate in Florida increased another $0.25, $0.27 and $0.12 per hour, respectively, with tipped employees also receiving the full wage increase. At the beginning of each year, the minimum wage in Florida will increase further based on the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics cost of living index. Such payroll cost increases can have a significantly adverse affect on our company. Menu price increases and other actions have been and are required to negate the affect of these wage increases. There can be no assurances that such measures expected to be taken by our company will be successful to adequately offset these additional payroll costs, or will be accepted without adverse reaction by our customers. Furthermore, the Americans with Disabilities Act may require us to make certain modifications to certain of our restaurants to meet specified access and use requirements. These and other initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. We may have liability for sales of alcoholic beverages. We are also subject to “dram-shop” statutes. These statutes generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. In certain states, statutes also provide that a vendor of alcoholic beverages may be held liable in a civil cause of action for injury or damage caused by or resulting from the intoxication of a minor under certain conditions. In addition, significant national attention is currently focused on the problem of drunk driving, which could result in the adoption of additional legislation. This could increase our potential liability for damage or injury caused by our customers. We may not be able to protect our service marks and proprietary information. We own two United States registrations for the service marks that we use, including the name “Shells.” We believe that our service marks have significant value and are essential to our ability to create demand for and awareness of our restaurants. We cannot assure you, however, that our service marks: • do not or will not violate the proprietary rights of others; • would be upheld if challenged; or • that we would not be prevented from using our service marks. 18 Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect us. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our service marks. We believe that we own all of our intellectual property and that the management and license agreements to which we are a party are enforceable. In the past, the enforceability of these management and license agreements has been questioned by certain of the licensees. Although we believe the agreements are enforceable, there can be no assurance that the agreements will not be challenged in the future, and, if challenged, that the agreements will be determined to be enforceable and the managed restaurants will be restricted from using the Shells service marks independent of us. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We employ various methods to protect our concepts and recipes. However, these methods may not completely protect us. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar knowledge or obtain access to our knowledge, concepts and recipes. Although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our executives and managers, we cannot assure you that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets. We also may incur additional risks that may be associated with the registration of our service marks in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other foreign countries by Food and Entertainment Co., LTD. Absence of Dividends. We have never paid cash dividends on our common or preferred stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our debt financings prohibit the payment of cash dividends and any future financing agreements may also prohibit the payment of cash dividends. Provisions with Potential Anti-Takeover Effect. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock from time-to-time in one or more series. The board of directors is authorized to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to and imposed upon any wholly unissued series of preferred stock. The board is authorized to fix the number of shares of any series of preferred stock and the designation of any such series, without any vote or action by our stockholders. The board may authorize and issue preferred stock with voting, dividend, liquidation, conversion or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. On October 24, 2001, we issued 66,862 shares of Series A 5% Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(6) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in consideration for the cancellation of $669,000 of trade indebtedness by trade creditors of our company. As of March 10, 2008, we had 22,694 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding. 19 On May 24, 2005, we issued 461,954 units in a private placement. Each unit consisted of (i) one share of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock convertible into 20 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances, and (ii) a warrant to purchase 10 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.30 per share. In addition, we issued a warrant to purchase 37,651 units (consisting of 37,651 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase 376,510 shares of our common stock) at a purchase price of $15.00 per unit to the placement agent in our May 2005 financing. As of March 10, 2008, we had 87,552 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding. The Series B Convertible Preferred Stock contains voting and anti-dilutive rights. The Series B Preferred Stock votes together with our common stock on an “as-converted” basis as a single class on all actions to be taken by our stockholders. Without the consent of a majority of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, we cannot alter or change adversely the powers, preferences or rights given to the Series B Preferred Stock, authorize or create any class of stock ranking as to a distribution of assets upon a liquidation event senior to or pari passu with the Series B Preferred Stock, issue any additional shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, or alter or change the powers, preferences or rights given to the Series A Preferred Stock. Upon any dissolution, liquidation, merger, consolidation, reorganization or other series of transactions, under certain conditions, the holders of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to be paid out of our assets legally available for distribution to our stockholders, before any payment is made to the holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 20 ITEM 