ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Common Stock We operate in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. We may face risks related to the restatement of our financial statements. We restated our consolidated financial statements, as more fully discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under Note 2 “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” to the consolidated financial statements included in this 2006 10-K. We restated our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2005, and our consolidated statements of operations, our consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income and consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. In addition, we restated selected financial data for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002. Companies that restate their financial statements sometimes face litigation claims and/or SEC proceedings following such a restatement. We could face monetary judgments, penalties or other sanctions which could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, we estimate that we will incur approximately $6 million to $7 million of expense, primarily professional fees, related to the historical stock option review and management analysis, substantially all of which was or will be expensed in the first ($3 million) and second ($3 million) quarters of fiscal 2007, and the remainder thereafter. In addition to the approximate $6 million to $7 million of expense incurred, we estimate that we will incur cash outlays of approximately $7 million for the settlement of vested options that optionees are or were unable to exercise due to the option review and which would otherwise expire. The actual amount incurred with respect to the settlement of options depends on the number of options that will expire prior to our becoming current on our quarterly financial statements as well as the stock price used to calculate any settlement amount. In most cases, these settlements reduced our additional paid-in capital balance and reduced our fully diluted outstanding shares. While we do not believe that the restatements or the costs of the review have or will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or future prospects, no assurance can be given that additional expense or legal claims will not arise in the future. 18 While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the financial and tax impacts of the historic stock option practices, we cannot provide assurance that the SEC or the IRS will agree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial and tax impacts. If the SEC or the IRS disagrees with our financial or tax adjustments, and such disagreement results in material changes to our historical financial statements, we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. We have postponed the filing of this 2006 10-K and of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007. As a result, we do not have current financial information available and will be limited in our ability to register our securities for offer and sale until we are deemed a current filer with the SEC. As a result of the delayed filing of this 2006 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, there is a lack of current publicly-available financial information concerning us. Investors must evaluate whether to purchase or sell our securities in light of the lack of current financial information. We are not in a position to predict at what date all current financial information will be available. Accordingly, any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Until all current periodic reports and financial statements are filed, we will be precluded from registering our securities with the SEC for offer and sale. This precludes us from raising debt or equity financing in the public markets and will limit our ability to use stock options and other equity-based awards to attract, retain and provide incentives to our employees. As a result of the delays in filing our periodic reports, we required certain extensions in connection with the delivery of financial statements and related matters under financing arrangements for our bank debt. We may require additional extensions in the future, and failure to obtain the necessary extensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. We have previously obtained certain extensions and may continue to seek additional extensions under our credit facilities. The extensions waive certain potential breaches of representations and covenants under our credit facilities and establish the extended deadlines for the delivery of certain financial reports. Our current extensions under the credit facilities expire on May 16, 2007 for our annual financial statements, the extensions for our quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006 expire the earlier of (i) 45 days after delivery of our annual financial statements, and (ii) July 2, 2007, and the extensions for our quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007 expire the earlier of (i) 45 days after delivery of our quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006, and (ii) August 16, 2007 and the extensions for our quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007 expire the earlier of (i) 45 days after delivery of our quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007, and (ii) October 1, 2007. We may not be able to deliver our quarterly financial statements for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 within the extended period, which may impact whether we are able to file our quarterly results for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2007 within the extended periods, and therefore, we may seek additional extensions under the credit facilities. Under our credit facilities, the lenders have the right to notify us if they believe we have breached a representation or covenant under the operative debt instruments and may declare an event of default. If one or more notices of default were to be given, we believe we would have various periods in which to cure such events of default or obtain necessary extensions. If we do not cure the events of default or obtain necessary extensions within the required time periods or certain extended time periods, the maturity of some of our debt could be accelerated and our ability to incur additional indebtedness could be restricted. Moreover, defaults under our bank loan agreements could trigger 19 cross-default provisions under those and other arrangements. There can be no assurance that any additional extensions will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any extensions obtained, including the extensions we have already obtained, will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business operations. The failure to obtain such extensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. The delay in filing this 2006 10-K on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 with the SEC and any failure to satisfy other NASDAQ listing requirements could cause the NASDAQ to commence suspension or delisting procedures with respect to our common stock. As a result of the delay in filing this annual report, we were in breach of certain continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ. We have received from the NASDAQ an additional period in which to trade our securities until July 2, 2007 in order for us to file this annual report and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 before that date. If we do not file the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 by such date or fail to satisfy other NASDAQ listing requirements, including the timely filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, if not waived by the NASDAQ, NASDAQ could commence suspension or delisting procedures with respect to our common stock. The commencement of any suspension or delisting procedures by the NASDAQ remains, at all times, at the discretion of the NASDAQ and would be publicly announced by the NASDAQ. The delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ may have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, limiting: · the liquidity of our common stock; · the market price of our common stock; · the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock; · the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; · the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and · our ability to obtain equity financing for the continuation of our operations. Our performance could be materially adversely affected by a general economic downturn or lessening demand in the software sector. Our financial condition depends on the health of the general economy as well as the software sector. Our revenue and profits are driven by demand for our products and services. A lessening demand in either the overall economy or the software sector could lead to a material decrease in our future revenues and earnings. The software market is a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The software market evolves quickly and is highly competitive. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share or customer base. For instance, we may not be able to accurately predict future changes in our customers’ needs and our competitors may develop new technologies or products that lessen demand for our products or make our products obsolete. Increased competition in the software sector could lead to price reductions, reduced profits, or loss of market share. 20 Management’s backlog estimate may not be accurate and may not generate the predicted revenues. Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates are based on management’s assessment of the customer contracts that exist as of the date the estimates are made, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals, to the extent that we believe that recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. A number of factors could result in actual revenues being less than the amounts reflected in backlog. Our customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions in their industries or geographic locations, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts. Actual renewal rates and amounts may differ from historical experiences used to estimate backlog amounts. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that contracts included in backlog will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within a 12-month or 60-month period. We may face exposure to unknown tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. We are subject to income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. In addition, we expect to continue to benefit from implemented tax-saving strategies. We believe that these tax-saving strategies comply with applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law and successfully challenge any of our tax positions, our financial condition and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. Two of our foreign subsidiaries are the subject of tax examinations by the local taxing authorities. Other foreign subsidiaries could face challenges from various foreign tax authorities. It is not certain that the local authorities will accept our tax positions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intend to vigorously defend our positions. However, differing positions on certain issues could be upheld by foreign tax authorities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Consolidation in the financial services industry may adversely impact the number of customers and our revenues in the future. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at key financial services organizations have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is concentrated in the financial services industry, making us susceptible to a downturn in that industry. Consolidation activity among financial institutions has increased in recent years. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions could cause us to lose existing and potential customers for our products and services. For instance, consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity in turn decided to forego future use of our products, our revenues would decline. Our stock price may be volatile. No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and past performance may not accurately predict future performance. Any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in our stock price. Our stock price may also be volatile, in part, due to 21 external factors such as announcements by third parties or competitors, inherent volatility in the technology sector, and changing market conditions in the software industry. There are a number of risks associated with our international operations. We have historically derived a majority of our revenues from international operations and anticipate continuing to do so. As a result, we are subject to risks of conducting international operations. One of the principal risks associated with international operations is potentially adverse movements of foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposures resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may change over time as our business evolves and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have not entered into any derivative instruments or hedging contracts to reduce exposure to adverse foreign currency changes. Other potential risks include difficulties associated with staffing and management, reliance on independent distributors, longer payment cycles, potentially unfavorable changes to foreign tax rules, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, variability of foreign economic conditions, changing restrictions imposed by U.S. export laws, and general economic and political conditions in the countries where we sell our products and services. One of our most strategic products, BASE24-eps could prove to be unsuccessful in the market. Our BASE24-eps product is strategic for us, in that it is designated to help us win new accounts, replace legacy payments systems on multiple hardware platforms and help us transition our existing customers to a new, open-systems product architecture. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to generate adequate sales of BASE24-eps, if market acceptance of BASE24-eps is delayed, or if we are unable to successfully deploy BASE24-eps in production environments. Our future profitability depends on demand for our products; lower demand in the future could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Historically, a majority of our total revenues resulted from licensing our BASE24 product line and providing related services and maintenance. Any reduction in demand for, or increase in competition with respect to, the BASE24 product line could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from licensing of software products that operate on Hewlett-Packard (“HP”) NonStop servers. Any reduction in demand for HP NonStop servers, or any change in strategy by HP related to support of its NonStop servers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. Our software products may contain undetected errors or other defects, which could damage our reputation with customers, decrease profitability, and expose us to liability. Our software products are complex. They may contain undetected errors or flaws when first introduced or as new versions are released. These undetected errors may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and a corresponding loss of sales or revenues. Customers depend upon our products for mission-critical applications, and these errors may hurt our reputation with customers. In addition, software product errors or failures could subject us to product liability, as well as performance and warranty claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. 22 Risks associated with future acquisitions and investments could materially adversely affect our business. We may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. During fiscal 2006, we acquired eps and P&H. Any acquisition or investment, including the acquisitions of eps and P&H, is subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, difficulties in integrating acquisitions, dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. Our failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, our expectations related to the benefits related to the eps and P&H acquisitions or any other future acquisition or investment could be inaccurate. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and technology and may be subject to increasing litigation over our intellectual property rights. To protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of our products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and trade secret and copyright laws. Despite such efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate products, or design around any rights we believe to be proprietary. This may be particularly true in countries other than the United States because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as certain laws of the United States. Any failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect us. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the electronic commerce field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is not economical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We anticipate that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions could increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that our present and future products infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may also claim, and we are aware that at least two parties have claimed on several occasions, that our customers’ use of a business process method which utilizes our products in conjunction with other products infringe on the third-party’s intellectual property rights. These third-party claims could lead to indemnification claims against us by our customers. Claims against our customers related to our products, whether or not meritorious, could harm our reputation and reduce demand for our products. Where indemnification claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage the customer relationship. A successful claim by a third-party of intellectual property infringement by us or one of our customers could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages, or stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to 23 develop alternative non-infringing technology. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased for third-party products distributed by us or as a result of acquisitions since we have a lower level of visibility, if any, into the development process with respect to such third-party products and acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Our restructuring plan may not achieve expected efficiencies. In October 2005, we announced a plan to restructure our organization because we believed that combining our three business units into a single operating unit would provide us with the best opportunities for focus, operating efficiency and strategic acquisition integration. This restructuring of our three business units into one operating unit is subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our service to customers, and lack of familiarity with markets or products. We cannot assure investors that our expectation of savings expected to stem from the restructuring will be achieved. We may become involved in litigation that could materially adversely affect our business financial condition and/or results of operations. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Failure to successfully defend against these claims could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Changes in the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) may have significant adverse effects on us. From time to time, the Financial Standards Accounting Board (FASB) promulgates new accounting rules applicable to us. New accounting standards, revised interpretations or guidance regarding existing standards, or changes in our business practices could result in future changes to our revenue recognition or other accounting policies. These changes could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Management has identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and appropriate financial reporting. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process, under the supervision of our CEO and CFO, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. As disclosed in this 2006 10-K, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identified material weaknesses in various areas as discussed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement revised internal controls and procedures, if any, or that revised controls and procedures, if any, will be effective in remedying the potential material weakness in our prior controls and procedures, nor can we provide assurance that we will not identify additional material weaknesses the future. In addition, we may be required to hire additional employees to help implement these changes, and may experience higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or if other material weaknesses develop and we are unable to 24 effectively address these matters, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 