Risk Factors The business and prospects of the Company are subject to the risks described below and other portions of this report. If any of the following risks or other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If the availability and amount of reimbursements to our client hospitals or our owned facilites by third party payors decreases, then our revenue and earnings could decrease. Insurers, managed care companies and governmental payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, have instituted cost containment measures designed to limit payments made to health care providers including our client hospitals and owned facilities. The availability and amount of the reimbursements impact the decisions of acute care hospitals regarding whether to offer behavioral health services pursuant to management contracts with us, as well as their decisions on whether to renew such contracts and the amounts paid to us thereunder. On November 15, 2004, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), published final regulations adopting a prospective payment system (PPS) for inpatient behavioral health services, which have historically been reimbursed based on reasonable cost, subject to a discharge ceiling. CMS has begun phasing in the PPS over a four-year period. The new system will pay inpatient behavioral health facilities a per diem base rate to be adjusted by factors that influence the cost of an individual patient’s care, such as each patient’s diagnosis related group, certain other medical and psychiatric coexisting conditions that may complicate treatment and age. The final regulations only provide for stop loss payments at 70% of the amount that behavioral health facilities and units in general acute care hospitals would have received under the old payment system. This could have an adverse effect on the reimbursement for the patient services provided in the units in general acute care hospitals that we manage, which could result in a reduction in revenues that we earn under our management contracts with such client hospitals. On May 7, 2004, CMS published a final rule to modify the criteria for being classified as an inpatient rehabilitation facility. The final rule, known as the “75% Rule,” generally requires that in order to meet the qualification requirement, 75% of the patients of a physical rehabilitation services unit must have certain qualifying medical conditions. The final rule has a four-year phase-in period and eliminates polyarthritis and other medical conditions as qualifying medical conditions. As a result, certain patients that previously satisfied a qualifying medical condition do not meet a qualifying medical condition under the new rule. The final rules together with similar prospective payment rules previously adopted for physical rehabilitation services have resulted and may continue to result in decreased reimbursements to our client hospitals which has led and may continue to lead to, among other things, renegotiated contract management fees which could have an adverse effect on our revenues from rehabilitation programs we manage. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to additional statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective rate adjustments, administrative rulings and funding restrictions, any of which could have the effect of limiting or reducing reimbursement levels to general acute care hospitals and freestanding behavioral health facilities for behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services provided by programs we manage or facilities we own/operate. Other future federal and state legislation and regulations may also result in reductions in the payments we receive for our services. With regard to the prospective payment system for services provided by inpatient behavioral health care hospitals the per diem amounts are calculated in part based on national averages, but will be adjusted for specific facility characteristics that increase the cost of patient care. The base rate per diem is intended to compensate a facility for costs incurred to treat a patient with a particular diagnosis, including nearly all labor and non-labor costs of furnishing covered inpatient behavioral health care services as well as routine, ancillary and capital costs. Payments rates for individual inpatient facilities will be adjusted to reflect geographic difference in wages and will allow additional outlier payments for expenses associated with extraordinary cases. Additionally, rural providers will receive an increased payment adjustment. Medicare will pay this per diem amount, as adjusted, regardless of whether it is more or less than a hospital’s actual costs. The per diem will not, however include the costs of bad debt and certain other costs that are paid separately. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Future federal and state legislation may reduce the payments we receive for our services. Insurance and managed care companies and other third parties from whom we receive payment in our owned hospitals are increasingly attempting to control health care costs by requiring that facilities discount their fees in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. This trend may continue and may reduce the payments received by us for our services. A significant number of our management contracts require us to refund or renegotiate some or all of our management fee if either reimbursement for services provided to patients of the program we manage is denied or the fee paid to us is denied as a reimbursable cost. Medicare retrospectively audits cost reports of client hospitals upon reimbursement for services rendered. Some of our management contracts provide for renegotiation of their terms if the Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement for the mental health or physical rehabilitation services provided by the client hospital drop below a certain level. Any significant decrease in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement levels, the imposition of significant restrictions on participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or the disallowance of any significant portion of a hospital’s costs, including the management fee paid to us, may reduce our revenues. Furthermore, facilities which offer behavioral health or physical rehabilitation programs now or hereafter managed or owned/operated by us may not satisfy the requirements for participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Recently acquired businesses and facilities, and businesses or facilities acquired in the future, will expose us to increased operating risks. We acquired two freestanding behavioral health facilities in fiscal 2004, and three freestanding behavioral health facilities in fiscal 2005. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to pursue additional acquisitions, leases, joint ventures and similar transactions. This expansion exposes us to additional business and operating risks and uncertainties, including: • the ability to effectively assimilate and manage acquired behavioral health facilities; • the ability to realize our investment in the acquired behavioral health facilities; • the diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • the risks of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired behavioral health facilities; • the risk that an acquisition could reduce our future earnings; • the exposure to unknown liabilities; and • our ability to meet contractual obligations. If we are unable to assimilate activities of the acquired behavioral health facilities and manage this expansion efficiently or effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel to run the expanded operations, it could result in financial expenditures and increased demands on management’s time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to improve the operations of acquired inpatient facilities, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to maintain or increase the profitability of, or operating cash flows at, any existing hospital or other acquired inpatient facility, effectively integrate the operations of any acquisition or otherwise achieve the intended benefit of our growth strategy. To the extent that we are unable to enroll in third party payor plans in a timely manner following an acquisition, we may experience a decrease in cash flow or profitability. If competition decreases our ability to acquire additional inpatient behavioral health facilities on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy. An important part of our business strategy is to acquire inpatient behavioral health facilities in attractive markets. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and a larger, more experienced development staff focused on identifying and completing acquisitions. In addition, we may compete with not-for-profit entities that operate on a tax-exempt basis. Regulatory requirements regarding inpatient behavioral health facilities could delay or prevent the acquisition of additional facilities. Some behavioral health facility acquisitions may require a longer period to complete than acquisitions in other industries and may be subject to additional regulatory uncertainty. Many states have adopted legislation restricting the sale or other disposition of facilities operated by not-for-profit entities. In other states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligations to protect charitable assets from waste. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the not-for-profit seller. In addition, the acquisition of facilities in certain states requires advance regulatory approval under “certificate of need” or state licensure regulatory regimes. These state-level procedures could seriously delay or even prevent us from acquiring inpatient facilities, even after significant transaction costs have been incurred. Additional financing may be necessary to fund our acquisition program and capital expenditures, and the financing may not be available when needed or may subject us to risks. Our acquisition program requires substantial capital resources. Likewise, the operation of existing inpatient behavioral health facilities requires ongoing capital expenditures for renovation, expansion and the upgrade of equipment and technology. Our level of indebtedness at any time may restrict our ability to borrow additional funds. If we are not able to obtain financing, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions or undertake capital expenditures. Although we currently have no outstanding borrowed indebtedness, we expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our borrowed indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to sell assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries, merge or consolidate with other entities, and engage in transactions with our affiliates; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the health care industry; 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • restricting our ability or the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less indebtedness. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain and meet specified financial ratios and tests that may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under our revolving credit facility. If an event of default under our revolving credit facility occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued, but unpaid, interest, to be immediately due and payable. Failure to renew contracts or extend contracts on the same terms may result in a significant decrease in our revenue. Approximately 47.5% of our revenues for the year ended August 31, 2005 were derived from management contracts with general acute care hospitals to manage behavioral health and physical rehabilitation clinical programs of those hospitals. The contracts generally have initial terms of three to five years and many have automatic renewal terms subject to termination by either party. The contracts often provide for early termination either by the client hospital if specified performance criteria are not satisfied or by us under various other circumstances. Although our management contracts are frequently renewed or extended prior to their stated expiration dates, some contracts expire without renewal and others are terminated by us or the client hospital for various reasons prior to their scheduled expiration. Our continued success is subject to the ability to renew or extend existing management contracts and obtain new management contracts. Contract renewals and extensions are likely to be subject to competing proposals from other contract management companies as well as consideration by certain hospitals to convert from independently managed programs to programs operated internally or to terminate their programs in order to reassign patient beds for other health care purposes. A client hospital may not continue to do business with us following expiration or termination of its management contract. In addition, any limitations or reductions in reimbursements for services provided by programs managed by us could result in a reduction in the management fees paid to us or the early termination of existing management contracts and would adversely affect our ability to renew or extend existing management contracts and to obtain new management contracts. The termination or non-renewal of a material number of management contracts could result in a significant decrease in our net revenues. If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: • billing for services; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • adequacy of medical care; • quality of medical equipment and services; • qualifications of medical and support personnel; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and medical records; • licensure; • hospital rate or budget review; 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • operating policies and procedures; and • addition of facilities and services. Among these laws are the anti-kickback provision of the Social Security Act (the Anti-kickback Statute) and the provision of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law.” These laws impact the relationships that certain health care providers, including our client hospitals and the behavioral health facilities we operate, may have with physicians and other referral sources. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of HHS has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the Anti-kickback Statute. The current relationships that our client hospitals or we have with physicians and other referral sources may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the Anti-kickback Statute. In order to comply with the Stark Law, the financial relationships between certain health care providers and physicians and their immediate family members must meet an exception. We structure and believe our client hospitals structure our respective relationships to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions, some of which are still under review, are detailed and complex, and certain of these relationships may not fully comply with the Stark Law. If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to penalties, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more inpatient behavioral health facilities), and exclusion of one or more of our inpatient behavioral health facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. In addition, if we do not operate our inpatient facilities in accordance with applicable law, the facilities may lose their licenses or the ability to participate in third party reimbursement programs. Our client hospitals face similar risks. Different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices or our client hospitals to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us or our client hospitals to make changes in our respective facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we or our client hospitals have violated these laws or regulations, or the public announcement that we or they are being investigated for possible violations of these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, other similar legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted. We may be required to spend substantial amounts of capital to comply with legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to privacy and security of patient health information and standards for electronic transactions. There are currently numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient privacy and security concerns. In particular, federal regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contain provisions that have required, and in the future may require, our facilities to implement costly new computer systems and to adopt business procedures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of their patients’ individually identifiable health and related financial information. The privacy regulations have had a financial impact on the health care industry because they impose extensive new administrative requirements, restrictions on the use and disclosure of individually identifiable patient health and related financial information, provide patients with new rights with respect to their health information and require our inpatient facilities to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy regulation requirements to third parties who perform functions on our behalf involving health information. On February 20, 2003, HHS issued final security regulations under HIPAA. Compliance with these security regulations was required by April 21, 2005 for most health care organizations, including our inpatient facilities. These security regulations require our inpatient facilities to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of electronically received, maintained or transmitted patient individually identifiable health and related financial information. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, our management has spent, and may spend in the future, substantial time and effort on compliance measures. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements HHS has issued regulations requiring most health care organizations, including our behavioral health facilities, to use standard data formats and code sets when electronically transmitting information in connection with several types of transactions, including health claims, health care payment and remittance advice and health claim status transactions. Violations of the privacy, security and transaction regulations could subject our inpatient facilities to civil penalties of up to $25,000 per calendar year for each provision contained in the privacy, security and transaction regulations that is violated and criminal penalties of up to $250,000 per violation for certain other violations. We face significant uncertainties associated with health care legislation. In addition to extensive government health care regulation, there are numerous initiatives on federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of health care services. We are not certain what legislation on health care reform may ultimately be proposed or enacted or whether other changes in the administration or interpretation of governmental health care programs will occur. Currently proposed or future health care legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of governmental health care programs may have an adverse effect on us. Other companies within the health care industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations, which increases the risk that we may become subject to investigations in the future. Both federal and state government agencies as well as private payors have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care organizations. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including: • cost reporting and billing practices; • quality of care; • financial relationships with referral sources; • medical necessity of services provided; and • treatment of uninsured patients. The OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Moreover, health care providers are subject to civil and criminal false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which allows private parties to bring whistleblower lawsuits against private companies doing business with or receiving reimbursement under federal health care programs. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. Publicity associated with the substantial amounts paid by other health care providers to settle these lawsuits may encourage our current and former employees and other health care providers to bring whistleblower lawsuits. Any investigations of our client hospitals or us could result in significant liabilities or penalties as well as adverse publicity. We may be subject to claims and legal actions for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. In late 1999, a civil qui tam lawsuit brought under the Federal False Claims Act was filed under seal naming our psychiatric contract management subsidiary, Horizon Mental Health Management, Inc., as one of the defendants in the lawsuit. In March 2001, the relators served the complaint in the lawsuit. The lawsuit is United States ex reI Debra Hockett, M.D., Linda Thompson, M.D., and Chyrissa Staley, RN, Plaintiffs, v. ColumbialHCA Healthcare Corp., Indian Path Hospital, Inc., Horizon Mental Health Management, Inc. and Superior Home Health of East Tennessee, Inc., Defendants, 01-MS-50 (RCL) (Part of Civil No. 99-3311 (RCL)), United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The DOJ had previously declined to intervene in the lawsuit. The complaint alleges that certain of our on-site personnel acted in concert with other non-Company personnel to improperly inflate certain 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Medicare reimbursable costs associated with psychiatric services rendered at a Tennessee hospital prior to August 1997. The complaint also alleges that the same actions occurred at other hospitals owned by the owner of the Tennessee hospital, a co-defendant in the suit, some of which also had management contracts with the Company. The parties are in discovery proceedings and there is no trial setting. Any judgment in this suit against us would not be covered by insurance. In early December 2000, we were served with a DOJ subpoena issued by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California. The subpoena requested the production of documents related to certain matters such as patient admissions, patient care, patient charting and marketing materials, pertaining to hospital geropsychiatric programs managed by us. We furnished documents relating to one facility in response to the subpoena in January 2001. After we met with the DOJ in December 2002 and furnished additional information, the DOJ subsequently declined to intervene in the suit. In November 2004, the relators served the complaint. The lawsuit is United States of America, ex rel. Michael M. Meyer, Patricia J. Szerlip and Vicki Weatherford, Plaintiffs, v. Horizon Health Corporation, a Delaware Corporation, Summit Medical Center, a California Corporation, and Sukhdeep Grewal, M.D., Defendants, Civil Action No. 00-00-1303 SBA, United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges primarily that patients admitted to two behavioral health programs managed by us did not meet admission criteria and therefore were inappropriately admitted. No discovery proceedings have been conducted in the case and there is no trial setting. Any judgment in this suit against us would not be covered by insurance. The Company is a party to a lawsuit styled Jeanine Phillips, on behalf of herself and all others simultaneously situated v. ProCare One Nurses, LLC, Obstetrical Nurses, Inc. and Horizon Health Corporation, Case Number 030000425, pending in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Orange. The complaint alleges various violations of California wage and hour laws and seeks the recovery of substantial amounts for wages, fines, penalties and attorneys fees. The case is filed as a private attorney general action under Section 17200 of the California Business and Profession Code. The Company considers that it is entitled to indemnity from Obstetrical Nurses, Inc., a predecessor to ProCare One Nurses, LLC for liability relating to a portion of the claims and has asserted a claim for indemnity in a separate lawsuit. The parties are engaged in discovery proceedings. The case is filed as a class action, but the court recently denied the motion for class certification. Any judgment in this suit against us would not be covered by insurance. We are, and may be in the future, party to litigation arising in the course of our business. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to substantially cover liabilities arising out of those claims or even cover any of such claims. Any material claim that is not covered by insurance may have an adverse effect on our business. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or outcome, may also have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Facilities acquired by us may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to patient care and liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, which could result in large claims and significant defense costs. Although we generally seek indemnification covering these matters from prior owners of facilities we acquire, such indemnification is often limited and material liabilities for past activities of acquired facilities may exist and such prior owners may not be able to satisfy their indemnification obligations. We are also susceptible to being named in claims brought related to patient care and other matters at inpatient facilities owned by third parties and at which we provide contract management services. The loss of our key management personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified clinical management, marketing and other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our continued success depends upon our executive officers and members of our management team, the loss of one or more of whom could adversely affect our business operations. Our success and growth strategy also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified clinical, management, marketing and other personnel. We compete with general acute care hospitals and other health care providers for the services of psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, therapists, physical therapists and other clinical personnel. Demand for clinical personnel for physical rehabilitation purposes is high and they are often subject to competing offers of employment. We may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for our business in the future. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We operate in a highly competitive environment. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, then we could lose market share. The health care industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the method in which services are provided and the types of companies providing services. We compete with several national competitors and many regional and local competitors, some of which have greater resources than us. In addition, acute care hospitals could elect to manage their own behavioral health or physical rehabilitation programs. Competition among contract managers for hospital-based behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs is generally based upon reputation for quality, price, the ability to provide financial and other benefits for the hospital, and the management, operational and clinical expertise necessary to enable the hospital to offer behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs that provide the full continuum of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services in a quality and cost-effective manner. The pressure to reduce health care expenditures has strengthened the need to manage the appropriateness of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services provided to patients. In addition, acute care hospitals offering behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs managed by us compete for patients with other providers of behavioral health care services, including other acute care hospitals, freestanding behavioral health facilities, independent psychiatrists and psychologists, and with other providers of physical rehabilitation services, including other acute care hospitals, freestanding rehabilitation facilities and outpatient facilities. There are potential risks associated with our goodwill and other intangible assets. At August 31, 2005, goodwill and net intangible assets represented 43.0% of our total assets. In the event we are sold or liquidated, the value of our intangible assets may not be realized. In addition, any significant decrease in the value of our intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on us. Under current generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to test impairment of goodwill and intangible assets at least annually. Because of the significance of goodwill and the identified indefinite lived assets to our consolidated balance sheet, impairment analyses are important. Changes in key assumptions about our business and its prospects, or changes in market conditions or other external factors, could result in an impairment charge and such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a provider of health care services, we are subject to claims and legal actions by patients and others. We are subject to medical malpractice and other lawsuits due to the nature of the services we provide. Facilities acquired by us may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to patient care and liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations, which could result in large claims and significant defense costs. Although we generally seek indemnification covering these matters from prior owners of facilities we acquire, material liabilities for past activities of acquired facilities may exist and such prior owners may not be able to satisfy their indemnification obligations. We are also susceptible to being named in claims brought related to patient care and other matters at inpatient facilities owned by third parties and operated by us. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage is maintained in amounts and with deductibles common in the industry. There are no assurances that our insurance will cover all claims (e.g., claims for punitive damages) or that claims in excess of our insurance coverage will not arise. A successful lawsuit against us that is not covered by, or is in excess of, our insurance coverage may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, especially given the significant increase in insurance premiums generally experienced in the health care industry. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on our relationships with physicians who use our inpatient facilities. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide health care services at our inpatient facilities and the strength of the relationships with these physicians. Our business could be adversely affected if a significant number of physicians or a group of physicians: • terminate their relationship with, or reduce their use of, our inpatient facilities; • fail to maintain acceptable quality of care or to otherwise adhere to professional standards; • suffer damage to their reputation; or • exit the market entirely. Our stock price could be volatile. • The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including: • problems achieving revenue enhancements and operating efficiencies; • actual and estimated earnings and cash flows; • quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; • changes in market conditions in the behavioral health care industries; • changes in general economic conditions; • fluctuations in the securities markets in general; • operating results differing from analysts’ estimates; and • changes in analysts’ earnings estimates. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements General Overview Horizon Health is a health care services provider with focus on its two core competencies of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation clinical services. There were two significant changes to the structure of the reportable service groups during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. As a result of the growth in the Company’s free-standing behavioral health care hospital business, which increased to five during fiscal year 2005 (two of which were acquired in the fourth fiscal quarter), management determined that it would disaggregate the hospitals and report them as a separate service group. Additionally, as a result of the sale of the Company’s temporary nurse staffing business on August 29, 2005, ProCare One Nurses is no longer reflected as a service group of the Company. Therefore, the Company’s reportable service groups are: (1) Behavioral Health Contract Management Services, including psychiatric outcomes measurement services (2) Behavioral Health Hospital Services, comprised of the Company’s owned or leased behavioral health care facilities, (3) Physical Rehabilitation Contract Management Services, and (4) Employee Assistance Program Services (“EAP Services”). For the year ended August 31, 2005, the revenues of such business service groups constituted 39%, 29%, 8% and 23%, respectively, of the total revenues of the Company from continuing operations. See Note 15 “Segment (Service Group) Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included elsewhere herein for financial information regarding the business segments (service groups) of the Company. During fiscal year 2005, the Company offered, on an at risk basis, managed behavioral health services to self-funded employee groups, insurance companies and commercial HMO & PPO plans through its EAP Services group. As of August 31, 2005, all contracts for managed behavioral healthcare services on an at-risk basis were terminated as discussed in previous filings during the fiscal year. During fiscal year 2005, the Company offered specialized temporary nurse staffing services to acute care hospitals through ProCare One Nurses. In previous filings the Company indicated that it was evaluating various alternatives to this line of business. ProCare One Nurses was sold on August 29, 2005 and the Company no longer provides these services. See Note 6 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 16 “EAP Services Reorganization and Related Impairments” to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included elsewhere herein this document. While the Company is generally not experiencing material adverse consequences as a result of recent changes in reimbursement under federal health care programs, at this time, the Company cannot meaningfully predict the ultimate impact that reimbursement changes may have on the programs it currently manages or the facilities it owns or on its ability to obtain new management contracts. See “Government Regulation” – “Medicare and Medicaid; Reimbursement for Services” elsewhere herein regarding Medicare statutes, hospital reimbursement systems and related recent changes. The Company was incorporated in 1989 and is the successor to Horizon Mental Health Management, Inc., incorporated in 1981, which began the development and contract management of behavioral health treatment programs for acute care hospitals. The Company’s national support center is located at 1500 Waters Ridge Drive, Lewisville, Texas, 75057. The telephone number is (972) 420-8200. The Company’s Form 10-Q’s and Form 10-K can be obtained free of charge through the Company’s website at www.horizonhealth.com. The Company has indicated that it will focus future growth, both internal and through acquisitions, primarily in the area of behavioral health clinical services. Recent Developments On August 29, 2005, the Company sold its membership interests in ProCare One Nurses, LLC, its wholly owned temporary nurse-staffing subsidiary, to CareerStaff Unlimited, Inc. The transaction consisted of a sale of all the membership interests in ProCare for total consideration of $8.3 million, consisting of $4.2 million in cash and $4.1 million in two promissory notes. One promissory note is in the amount of $2.1 million payable in six months and the other promissory note is in the amount of $2.0 million payable quarterly over three years. The sale resulted in a $4.8 million loss to the Company. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements On August 1, 2005, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of River Park Hospital from Mountain State Behavioral Health Services, LLC and the stock of an affiliated management company located in Huntington, West Virginia for approximately $11.0 million. The hospital is a 165-bed behavioral health facility offering programs for adults, adolescents, children and families. On July 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company at a regular board meeting increased the size of its Board of Directors to eight and elected C. Thomas Smith to fill the one resulting, newly created directorship. On July 1, 2005, the Company formed a joint venture with the Thomas Scattergood Behavioral Health Foundation, a 501(c)(3) charitable organization, and the joint venture acquired Friends Hospital, a 192-bed behavioral health hospital and a 27-bed adult residential treatment center located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Prior to the acquisition, Friends Hospital was owned by the Thomas Scattergood Behavioral Health Foundation. Horizon is an 80% member of the joint venture and the Thomas Scattergood Behavioral Health Foundation is a 20% member of the joint venture. The Company contributed approximately $15.5 million in cash to the joint venture which funds were used for the acquisition of the hospital by the joint venture. Construction of a building to serve as the new national support center (“NSC”), which is in close proximity to the current NSC facility in Lewisville, Texas, began during June 2005. The Company will lease the 80,000 square foot facility and anticipates completion and occupancy beginning in April 2006. The term of the office lease agreement is ten (10) years with renewal options of two periods of five years each. On June 10, 2005, the Company entered into a Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement to extend the term of its existing credit agreement by four years and to increase the amount of the revolving credit facility to $125.0 million (with an expansion feature under which the amount of the credit facility can be increased to $175.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions). The Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as amended, matures on May 31, 2010. On May 10, 2005, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had approved a two-for-one stock split to be effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend (the “Stock Split”), pursuant to which, on June 15, 2005, the Company distributed to each holder of record of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company at the close of business on May 31, 2005 (the “Record Date”), one additional share of Common Stock for each outstanding share of Common Stock held of record by such holder at the Record Date. On May 2, 2005, the Company opened a new EAP Services call center in Lewisville, Texas. As a result, the call center operations in Philadelphia, Orlando, and Nashville were consolidated with the new call center, which was completed as of August 31, 2005. Effective April 21, 2005, David K. White, Ph.D., was appointed as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Ken Newman will remain and continue to serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Effective March 16, 2005, the Company sold in a follow-on public offering 3,450,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $18.13 per share (shares and share price restated to reflect the impact of the June 15, 2005 two-for-one stock split.). The aggregate net proceeds to the Company (after deducting underwriters discounts and estimated expenses) were $58.4 million. The Company utilized approximately $34.5 million of the proceeds to repay all outstanding debt under its revolving credit facility. The balance of the net proceeds was used for the acquisitions of Friends Hospital and River Park Hospital and for general corporate purposes. On February 23, 2005, the Company announced that it had commenced a reorganization of its EAP Services group. The EAP Services group provides employee assistance programs to employers, behavioral 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements health administrative services for employer benefit plans and third party payor plans, and managed behavioral health care at-risk services to managed care companies and employer plans. The reorganization involved the centralization of most of the business functions of the service group to Lewisville, Texas, where the National Support Center of the Company is located. The reorganization also involved focusing on employee assistance programs and terminating the managed behavioral health care at-risk contracts of the service group. These at-risk contracts had annual revenue of approximately $23.0 million with little or no margin associated with them. The Company has previously disclosed that it does not consider the at-risk managed behavioral health care business as part of its core competency. The termination of the at-risk managed care contracts is consistent with the Company’s renewed focus on its core competencies. The reorganization was completed August 31, 2005. The reorganization involved personnel changes as well as office location changes. It also involved a reduction in the total number of employees in the service group. On January 21, 2005, the stockholders of the Company approved the Horizon Health Corporation 2005 Omnibus Incentive Plan pursuant to a proposal that was submitted to the stockholders for approval at the Company’s 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. On December 30, 2004, the Company entered into a long-term operating lease agreement of Laurelwood Hospital, a 160-bed psychiatric hospital located in Willoughby, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. The hospital was leased from Lake Hospital System, Inc. The lease term commenced on January 1, 2005 and has an initial fifteen (15) year term that expires on December 31, 2019. The Company also has an option to extend the lease for an additional fifteen-year term. Rent under the lease during the initial lease term consists of quarterly rental payments of $200,433 payable in advance on the first day of January, April, July and October. In addition, the Company agreed to make a contribution to the Lake Hospital Foundation in the amount of $41,666 on December 31, 2007 and each December 31st thereafter to and including December 31, 2012. Services by Service Group Behavioral Health Contract Management Services The Company believes that there continues to be a viable market for behavioral health contract management services provided to acute care hospitals. The Company believes the hospital based clinical service delivery system for the behavioral health programs it manages is a cost efficient and effective model competitive with other forms of delivery systems in the marketplace. Acute care hospitals outsource key clinical departments to independent contract management companies for several reasons, including: (i) the expertise necessary for the development, management and operation of specialized clinical programs differs from that necessary for traditional medical/surgical services, (ii) acute care hospitals often lack access to the skilled professionals and support staff needed to operate specialized clinical programs, (iii) acute care hospitals often lack expertise in community education activities required to support specialized clinical programs, and (iv) acute care hospitals often lack expertise necessary to design and operate specialized clinical programs that satisfy regulatory, licensing, accreditation and reimbursement requirements. A focus of the Company is developing behavioral health programs to accommodate patients needing different levels of care based on their presenting condition. Such levels include inpatient hospitalization as well as alternatives to inpatient hospitalization in order to ensure that each patient’s treatment regimen utilizes clinical resources effectively. The Company believes that acute care hospitals need to be able to offer a broad array of behavioral health care services in order to develop or participate in integrated delivery systems responsive to the changing demands of governmental payors, managed care companies and other third-party payors. Acute care hospitals are able to provide their mix of behavioral health patients (as to age, acuity, comorbidity, etc.) with needed medical and surgical care on-site. Furthermore, acute care hospitals are eligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicaid program for behavioral health care provided to Medicaid-eligible adults, unlike freestanding psychiatric hospitals, which are not presently eligible. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company believes it is uniquely positioned to capitalize on an increased demand for behavioral health contract management services as a result of its demonstrated industry expertise and its proprietary quality and outcomes measurement system. In addition, the Company believes its position as the leading contract manager (based on market share) of behavioral health programs provides the Company with a significant advantage in attracting and retaining employees and yields several economies of scale such as the ability to consolidate administrative functions. The Company has the expertise to manage a broad range of clinical behavioral health programs, including geropsychiatric, general adult, substance abuse and child and adolescent programs. The programs use a treatment team concept, with the admitting physician, team psychologist, social workers, nurses, therapists and counselors coordinating each phase of therapy. The programs include crisis intervention, individual therapy, group and family therapy, recreational therapy, occupational therapy, lifestyle education, social services and substance abuse counseling. Family involvement is encouraged. Each treatment program is individually tailored as much as practicable to meet the needs of the patients, the client hospital, physicians and payor groups. The Company intends to continue to emphasize the area of behavioral health programs for the elderly (“geropsychiatric programs”). At August 31, 2005, approximately 61.7% of the behavioral health treatment programs managed by the Company were geropsychiatric programs. Many elderly patients with short-term behavioral illness also have physical problems that make the general acute care hospital environment the most appropriate site for their care. The Medicare program currently reimburses acute care hospitals at least 92.5%, in calendar year 2005, of their cost of providing these services, which includes the Company’s management fee as well as allocated overhead costs to the facility. The Medicare program also allows reimbursement for partial hospitalization on a specified fee for service basis that facilitates the ability to treat patients in the most cost-effective environment. The Company has developed particular expertise in developing specialized psychiatric programs for the elderly, in operating such programs, and in assisting acute care hospitals in receiving approval for inpatient programs as distinct part units to qualify for reimbursement under Medicare. Approval of an inpatient program as a distinct part unit is significant to client acute care hospitals because services provided in distinct part units are exempt from predetermined acute care hospital reimbursement rates. Services provided in such distinct part units have been reimbursed by Medicare on an actual cost basis, subject to certain significant limitations described below. As discussed below in the “Government Regulations” section, a Medicare prospective payment system was implemented for cost reporting years beginning on January 1, 2005 for inpatient behavioral health services. The contract management fees received by the Company for its services are paid directly by its client acute care hospitals. The client acute care hospitals receive reimbursement for the clinical services provided to patients of the programs managed by the Company under either the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from insurers, self-funded benefit plans or other third-party payors for the services. As a result, the availability and amount of such reimbursements, which are subject to change, impacts the decisions of acute care hospitals regarding whether to offer behavioral health services pursuant to management contracts with the Company, as well as the decisions whether to renew such contracts and the amount of fees to be paid thereunder. See “Government Regulation” – “Medicare and Medicaid; Reimbursement for Services” elsewhere herein for a further discussion of funding methods, and recent changes in them. Elements of the Continuum of Care The behavioral health treatment programs managed by the Company are designed to be part of a continuum of behavioral health services, consisting of inpatient, partial hospitalization (or day treatment) and outpatient services. Inpatient Services. Inpatient services are generally provided to patients needing the most intensive behavioral health treatment and who frequently have accompanying medical care needs. The patient is admitted to the client hospital and remains there on a 24-hour per day basis throughout the course of the inpatient treatment, which is continued until the patient can be stabilized and moved to another level in the continuum of behavioral health services. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Partial Hospitalization. Partial hospitalization services are provided for limited periods per day with the patient returning home at the conclusion of each day’s treatment. Partial hospitalization services are designed to be both an alternative to inpatient hospitalization services and a key component of care following inpatient hospitalization. Outpatient Services. Outpatient services consist generally of consultative and therapeutic sessions that can be rendered in a variety of individual or group settings at various locations, including acute care hospitals, clinics or the offices of the service provider. Outpatient service providers can also serve a “gatekeeper” function for persons being evaluated for treatment. Once an individual is assessed for treatment in an outpatient environment, the individual is provided the appropriate level of service in relation to the diagnosis. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CQI+ Mental Health Outcomes Measurement The Company began offering its proprietary CQI+ Outcomes Measurement System in 1994. The CQI+ System provides a qualitative and quantitative tool for behavioral health programs to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of treatment and to make adjustments in the programs in order to improve quality and appropriateness of care. The CQI+ Outcomes Measurement System provides outcome information regarding the effectiveness of a hospital’s behavioral health programs. The availability of such information enables a hospital to demonstrate to third-party payors whether patients are improving as a result of the treatment provided, to refine its clinical treatment programs to improve the effectiveness of care provided and to demonstrate the benefits of its programs to patients and providers. The CQI+ System also provides the Company with a valuable tool for demonstrating clinical results of the behavioral health programs managed by the Company and for marketing its management services to other acute care hospitals. The Company provides outcome measurement services to acute care hospital-based programs as well as freestanding psychiatric hospitals. The Company’s CQI+ System is included on the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (“JCAHO”) list of acceptable ORYX outcome measurement systems. The Company is committed to meeting the requirements as established by JCAHO. As of August 31, 2005, 52 of the Company’s behavioral health management contracts included the CQI+ System and there were an additional 61 stand-alone contracts. Since offering the CQI+ System, the Company has compiled a proprietary database containing de-identified patient outcome measurement data on approximately 159,000 patients. Sample data is typically collected from randomly selected patients at admission, discharge and 90 to 180 days after discharge. Quarterly outcome reports include a summary of patient characteristics and outcome measures. The Company trains and supervises on-site personnel to ensure the collection of accurate outcome measurement data. With the continued emphasis on enhancing patient care, accountability and the JCAHO accreditation requirement, the Company believes that its CQI+ System is an important component of the behavioral health services it provides. Behavioral Health Hospital Services The Company’s behavioral health care facilities offer a wide range of inpatient behavioral health care services for children, adolescents and adults. Our inpatient facilities work closely with mental health professionals, including licensed professional counselors, therapists and social workers; psychiatrists; non-psychiatric physicians; emergency rooms; school systems; insurance and managed care organizations; company-sponsored employee assistance programs; and law enforcement and community agencies that interact with individuals who may need treatment for behavioral illness or substance abuse. Those clients not meeting the established criteria for inpatient care may qualify for outpatient care or a less intensive level of care also provided by the facility. Inpatient psychiatric treatment is the most intensive level of care, including 24-hour skilled nursing observation and care, daily interventions and oversight by a psychiatrist and intensive, highly coordinated treatment by a physician-led team of behavioral health professionals. Every patient admitted to our acute inpatient facilities is assessed by a medical doctor within 24 hours of admission. Patients with non-complex medical conditions are monitored during their stay by the physician and nursing staff at the inpatient facility. Patients with more complex medical needs are referred to more appropriate facilities for diagnosis and stabilization prior to treatment. Patients admitted to our acute inpatient facilities also receive comprehensive nursing and psychological assessments within 24 to 72 hours of admission. Oversight and management of patients’ medication is performed by licensed psychiatrists on staff at the facility, and individual, family, and group therapy is performed by licensed counselors as appropriate to the patients’ assessed needs. Education regarding their illness is also provided by trained mental health professionals. Our residential treatment centers offer longer-term treatment programs primarily for children and adolescents with long-standing acute behavioral health problems. Our residential treatment centers provide physician-led, multi-disciplinary treatments that address the overall medical, psychiatric, social, and academic needs of the patient. Twenty-four hour observation and care is provided in our residential treatment centers, along with individualized therapy that usually consists of one-on-one sessions with a licensed counselor, as well as process and rehabilitation group therapy. Another key component of the 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements treatment of children and adolescents in our inpatient facilities is family therapy. Participation of the child’s or adolescent’s immediate family is strongly encouraged in order to heighten the chance of success once the resident is discharged. Medications for residents are managed by licensed psychiatrists while they remain at the inpatient facility. Our residential treatment centers also provide academic programs by certified teachers to children and adolescent residents. These programs are individualized for each resident based on analysis by the teacher upon admission. Upon discharge, academic reports are forwarded to the resident’s school. Specialized programs for children and adolescents in our residential treatment centers include programs for sexually reactive children, sex offenders, reactive attachment disorders, and children and adolescents who are developmentally delayed with a behavioral component. During the last two fiscal years, the Company has acquired the following facilities: • On August 1, 2005, the Company acquired the assets of River Park Hospital, a 165-bed behavioral health facility located in Huntington, West Virginia, and the stock of an affiliated management company through a stock purchase agreement. • On July 1, 2005, the Company formed a joint venture with the Thomas Scattergood Behavioral Health Foundation, a 501(c)(3) charitable organization, and the joint venture acquired Friends Hospital, a 192-bed behavioral health hospital and a 27-bed adult residential treatment center located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Prior to the acquisition, Friends Hospital was owned by the Thomas Scattergood Behavioral Health Foundation. • Effective January 1, 2005, the Company entered into a long-term operating lease agreement of Laurelwood Hospital, a 160-bed behavioral health hospital located in Willoughby, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. • On June 1, 2004, the Company acquired the assets of PSH Acquisition Corporation (“PSH”), which operates five behavioral facilities (three owned and two leased) with a total licensed capacity of 187 beds, in the central Virginia region. • On April 1, 2004, the Company acquired the assets of Northern Indiana Hospital, an 80-bed behavioral health hospital located in Plymouth, Indiana. The Company operates the facility under the name “Michiana Behavioral Health Center”. Physical Rehabilitation Contract Management Services The Company’s acquisition of Specialty Healthcare Management, Inc. in August 1997 expanded the Company’s operations to include the contract management of physical rehabilitation programs. The Company believes that many of the same factors that drive demand for contract management of behavioral health programs are also applicable to physical rehabilitation programs. The Company provides contract management services for a full range of physical rehabilitation services. In addition to acute physical therapy and rehabilitation services, the Company also provides contract management for skilled nursing services and outpatient rehabilitation programs. Acute rehabilitation units are specialized programs that incorporate a variety of treatments and services aimed at improving an individual’s functional level following a disabling illness or traumatic injury. The treatment program is led by a physician and provided by an interdisciplinary team of health care professionals including physical, speech, occupational and recreational therapists, rehabilitation nurses and social workers. The Company tailors an acute rehabilitation program for a health care facility to satisfy unmet community and medical staff needs, while maximizing utilization of the facility. Outpatient rehabilitation serves as an adjunct to inpatient physical therapy and rehabilitation programs. Outpatient rehabilitation services are dominated by the treatment of sports and work related injuries, but also provide the continuum of rehabilitative care necessary to meet the medical needs of a post-acute care patient following a disabling illness or traumatic injury. Pressure from payors to move inpatients to the lowest-cost appropriate treatment setting has helped stimulate growth in outpatient rehabilitation services. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements EAP Services The Company contracts with employers to provide employee assistance programs (“EAPs”) to their employees. An EAP is a program that is designed to assist employees and their dependents with resolution of behavioral conditions or other personal concerns. It is considered that having an EAP will result in more productivity from employees. Employers usually provide an EAP as a benefit at no cost to employees. Under an EAP, staff or network providers provide assessment and referral services to employee beneficiaries and their dependants. These services consist of evaluating a beneficiary’s needs and, if indicated, providing limited counseling and/or identifying an appropriate provider, treatment facility or other resource for more intensive treatment services. For its EAP services, the Company is usually paid a specified fee per month per employee based on the range and breadth of services provided to the employer, which may include work life services, and the method(s) in which those services are provided. The Company frequently provides training to employer personnel for identifying troubled employees. Often an employer will refer an employee for consultation after observing a change in work performance. The Company believes that such early identification and resolution of productivity problems can frequently minimize the likelihood that the problem will develop into a serious debilitating event requiring extensive treatment. The Company’s EAP services can include a comprehensive array of work life information and referral sources if desired by the employer. Modes of access to services include internet, phone and face-to-face sessions, all of which focus on providing consultation and resource services to assist employees and their families in achieving personal and professional success and emotional well-being. Through several acquisitions, as described in Note 5 “Acquisitions” in the Notes to Financial Statements included elsewhere herein, the Company has expanded its service offerings, including the ability to conduct EAP business in the State of California, through the acquisition of a limited Knox-Keene license. During the fiscal year 2005, the Company also contracted with self-insured employers, insurance companies and HMOs to provide the managed behavioral health care component of the general health plans offered by such entities. The contracts were primarily on a full risk, capitated basis under which the Company was paid a set fee per month for each member of the respective health plan, however, a small portion of the contracts were structured on a stipulated fee-for-service basis. As a part of the reorganization of EAP Services, the Company terminated all of the managed behavioral health at-risk contracts during fiscal year 2005. The Company will continue its administrative services only business in which it is not at-risk for the cost of treatment services. EAP services are provided primarily through a national network of independent EAP providers that have contracted with the Company to provide such services. The Company reimburses the independent network professionals and institutions on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. The clinical providers represent a broad range of treatment and case management specialties and are qualified to respond to the complete continuum of behavioral health concerns, pediatric to geriatric. The clinical providers include psychiatrists, nurses, psychologists, social workers, and other related behavioral health personnel. The Company believes that its relationships with health care providers and its expertise in the provision of behavioral health care services provide it with the capability to establish, operate and manage the network of health care professionals necessary to economically and adequately furnish such services. Operations Management Contracts The Company operates its behavioral health and physical rehabilitation contract management businesses through a regional structure that includes management personnel officed in the regional territory and in the Company’s national support center (“NSC”) in the Dallas suburb of Lewisville, Texas. The structure is designed to maintain key operating employees of the Company in direct contact with clients. Each region is under the supervision of a vice president who in turn supervises regional directors, each of whom has direct responsibility over eight to twelve management contract locations. Other regional personnel include clinical and other specialists who are available to provide assistance to the local programs and client hospital personnel. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company provides its management services under contracts with client acute care hospitals. Each contract is tailored to address the specific needs of the client hospital and its community. The Company and the client hospital determine the programs and services to be offered by the hospital and managed by the Company. At any location, these may consist of one or more treatment programs offering inpatient, partial hospitalization, outpatient services, and also other specialized services. Under the management contracts, the hospital is the actual provider of the behavioral health or physical rehabilitation services and utilizes its own facilities (including beds for inpatient programs), its own support services (such as billing, dietary and housekeeping), and frequently its own nursing staff for the operation of the treatment programs with the Company providing operating and clinical expertise through its onsite management staff. While the treatment programs subject to each of the management contracts is tailored to the specific needs of the client hospital, substantially all of the management contracts contain certain non-compete and confidentiality provisions. In addition, the management contracts typically prohibit the client hospital from soliciting the employment of the Company’s employees during the contract term and for a specified period thereafter. The management contracts generally have a term of 3-5 years although some contracts have shorter or longer terms. Contracts are frequently renewed or amended prior to their stated expiration date. As of August 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company had successfully retained 88%, 88%, and 82%, respectively, of the management contracts in existence at the beginning of the respective fiscal year. Some contracts are terminated prior to their stated expiration date by mutual agreement of the parties or pursuant to early termination provisions included in the contract. The Company’s experience is that the most frequent reasons why the client acute care hospitals do not renew a contract is that the hospital desires to manage the program itself, the economic viability of the program has changed resulting in the hospital closing the program, or a change in hospital administration has occurred that results in a philosophical change regarding the use of contract managers. Under each contract, the Company receives a fee for its services paid by the client hospital. The management fee may be a variable fee related in part to patient volumes (census, admissions, or discharges) at the program, a fixed fee with reimbursement for specified direct program costs, or a combination of these structures. The management fee is frequently subject to periodic adjustments as a result of changes in a relevant price index or other economic factors. A significant number of the Company’s management contracts require the Company to refund some or all of its fee if either Medicare reimbursement for services provided to patients of the programs is denied or the fee paid to the Company is denied as a reimbursable cost. During the last three fiscal years the Company has not refunded any significant amount of its fees in relation to such denials. Program Development The Company assists in the development of each clinical program as requested by the client hospital, including such matters as licensing, accreditation, certificate of need approvals and Medicare certification. The Company also develops and implements community education awareness plans and development plans for the clinical programs to be offered by the hospital. Each program is marketed locally in the name of the client hospital with an emphasis on the hospital addressing the needs of the local community. The Company’s name is not used and its role is not publicly emphasized in the operation of the clinical programs offered by its client acute care hospitals. The medical staff of the client hospital admits each patient. Charges for treatment services provided to the patients of the programs accrue directly to and are billed by the client hospital and/or treating physician. The Company also develops and maintains standardized clinical, operating, and administrative policy and procedure manuals, conducts initial and ongoing staff training and education, and implements 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements quality assurance and ethical and regulatory compliance procedures. Each local program director receives ongoing support from the regional support staff and the national support center staff in areas including recruiting, finance, reimbursement, referral development, marketing, quality assurance and regulatory compliance. Each operating region is responsible for training new employees, including formalized instruction and on-the-job training. Continuing education programs are also provided to employees. In addition, the Company has a centralized orientation program for new program directors and other program management personnel, an annual leadership conference for all program directors and other program personnel, and an on-going comprehensive Code of Conduct plan. Program Staffing Behavioral health programs managed by the Company generally have a program director that is usually a psychologist, an advance degreed nurse or a social worker and additional social workers or therapists as needed. Many programs also include a nurse manager, a community education manager or a clinical assessment coordinator. Physical rehabilitation programs managed by the Company generally have a program director, and additional clinical staff tailored to meet the needs of the specific hospital program, which may include physical and occupational therapists, speech pathologists, social workers and other appropriate supporting personnel. In addition, for mental health and physical rehabilitation programs, the Company generally contracts with a medical director on an independent contractor basis under which on-site administrative services for medical oversight of the program are provided. These contracts generally include nondisclosure, non-solicitation and non-competition covenants pursuant to which the medical director agrees not to solicit the Company employees for specified periods, disclose confidential information of the Company or render certain administrative or management services within specified time periods and geographic areas to any enterprise in competition with the Company or the programs it manages. Except for the nursing staff, which is typically provided and employed by the hospital, the other program personnel are usually employees of the Company. The Company’s management contracts typically contain non-solicitation covenants whereby the hospital agrees not to solicit or otherwise employ Company employees for specified periods. Program Education and Referral Development The treatment programs managed by the Company are a service provided by the general acute care hospital client. Most patients are referred by the client hospital’s medical staff or result from relationships that the client hospital has in the community. Many contract locations have a community education manager employed by the company who works with a community awareness and referral development committee consisting of the Company and hospital personnel to educate physicians, other health professionals and nursing homes in the community of the treatment programs that are available at the client hospital, to which they can direct patients. The community education manager also designs and offers community educational programs regarding various health issues. Internal Audits The Company has established a clinical internal audit process for its behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs. The Company’s regional behavioral health clinical specialists review, as a part of the ongoing operations, the services and clinical documentation of the treatment programs for compliance with client hospital, federal, state and Company standards. The clinical auditor typically reviews medical records, clinical and operating procedures, staffing, marketing programs, etc. and conducts interviews with physicians, referral sources and client hospital staff members and frequently patients and/or their families. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company also has a quality audit department that is independent from contract clinical and operations staff. The corporate auditors periodically visit all contract locations. Results of the quality audits are reported directly to the senior management of the Company, independent from the operating organizations. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Contract Locations At August 31, 2005, the Company had a total of 135 behavioral health and physical rehabilitation management contracts with acute care hospitals located in 36 states and the District of Columbia as shown below: State Number of Contracts State Number of Contracts Alabama 3 Mississippi 7 Arkansas 9 Missouri 6 Arizona 1 Montana 2 California 11 Nebraska 1 Colorado 1 Nevada 1 Connecticut 1 New Jersey 2 District of Columbia 1 New York 6 Florida 2 North Carolina 6 Georgia 1 Ohio 8 Idaho 1 Oregon 3 Illinois 3 Pennsylvania 11 Indiana 1 South Carolina 2 Iowa 2 Tennessee 4 Kansas 2 Texas 8 Kentucky 4 Virginia 1 Louisiana 3 Washington 3 Maryland 1 West Virginia 1 Massachusetts 4 Wisconsin 2 Michigan 10 Client Hospitals The Company’s management contract clients are primarily small to medium sized acute care hospitals often located in rural areas, but also include some large tertiary acute care hospitals. At August 31, 2005, approximately 77.0% of the Company’s management contracts were with community or religious based not-for profit acute care hospitals. The remaining contracts are with proprietary and nonproprietary for profit acute care hospitals. CQI+ Mental Health Outcomes Measurement The Company develops and operates its outcomes measurement system primarily out of its national support center. Program personnel are responsible for the completion of the data input forms concerning the various treatment programs. The data is input into the national database using automated technologies from which reports are developed, reviewed and analyzed. Behavioral Health Care Facilities Through owned and leased behavioral health care facilities, the company offers a wide range of behavioral health care services for children, adolescents and adults. The facilities work closely with behavioral health professionals, including licensed professional counselors, therapists and social workers; psychiatrists; non-psychiatric physicians, emergency rooms; law enforcement and community agencies that interact with individuals who may need treatment for behavioral illness or substance abuse. The facilities have mobile assessment teams who travel to prospective clients in order to assess their condition and determine if they meet criteria for inpatient care. Those clients not meeting criteria for inpatient care may qualify for outpatient care or a less intensive level of care also provided by the facilities. Through the diversity of programming and levels of care available, the patient can receive a seamless treatment experience from acute care to residential long-term care to group home living to outpatient treatment. This seamless care system provides the continuity of care needed to step the patient down and allow the patient to develop and use successful coping skills and treatment interventions to sustain long-term treatment success. Treatment modalities include comprehensive assessment, 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements multidisciplinary treatment planning including the patient and family, group, individual and family therapy services, medical and dental services, educational services, recreational services, and discharge planning services. Specialized interventions such as skills training include basic daily living skills, social skills, work/school adaptation skills and symptom management skills. Collateral consultations are provided to significant others such as family members, teachers, employers and other professionals when needed to help the patient successfully reintegrate back into his/her world. Acute inpatient hospitalization is the most intensive level of care offered and typically involves 24-hour skilled nursing observation and care, daily interventions and oversight by a psychiatrist, and intensive, highly coordinated treatment by a physician-led team of behavioral health professionals. Every patient admitted to acute care is assessed by a medical doctor within 24 hours of admission. Patients admitted to the acute care facilities also receive comprehensive nursing and psychosocial assessments within 24 to 72 hours of admission. Oversight and management of patients’ medication is performed by licensed psychiatrists on staff at the facility, and individual, family, and group therapy is performed by licensed counselors as appropriate to the patients’ assessed needs. Education regarding their illness is also provided by trained medical health professionals. The Company’s residential treatment care programs provide longer-term treatment programs for children and adolescents with long-standing behavioral health problems. Twenty four-hour observation and care is provided in the residential treatment care programs, along with individualized therapy that usually consists of one-on-one sessions with a licensed counselor, as well as process and rehabilitation group therapy. Another key component of the treatment of children and adolescents is family therapy. Participation of the child’s or adolescent’s immediate family is strongly encouraged in order to heighten the chance of success once the resident is discharged. Medications for residents are managed by licensed, often board-certified, psychiatrists while they remain at the inpatient facility. The Company’s residential treatment care programs also provide academic programs by certified teachers to children and adolescent residents. These programs are individualized for each resident based on analysis by the teacher upon admission. Upon discharge of the resident, academic reports are forwarded to the resident’s school. Specialized programs for children and adolescents in the RTCs include programs for sexually reactive children, sex offenders, reactive attachments disorders and clients who are developmentally delayed with a behavioral component. The residential treatment care programs often receive out-of-state referrals to their programs due to the lack of specialized programs for these disorders within the referral’s own state. Employee Assistance Services The Company’s EAP Services group has positioned itself to compete as a nationally integrated organization to better service and market to a growing regional and national customer base, for stronger market identification, and to achieve operating efficiencies. The Company’s service centers are located in the Dallas, Texas; Denver, Colorado; and San Diego, California metropolitan areas. EAP Services has a national network of independent EAP providers located in all 50 states. This service group has employees working in clinical management and administrative positions at its service centers. EAP Services also has employees performing sales and support services and administrative functions based at the NSC and its various operating locations. Administration The Company’s employees at its national support center provide company-wide support in finance, human resources, information technology, physician and program director recruitment, clinical compliance, risk management, auditing, and other administrative and executive services. Sales and Marketing The Company conducts direct sales activities for its behavioral health and physical rehabilitation contract management businesses. The Company compiles information of over 6,000 hospitals in the United States, 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements with numerous clinical, operating and financial characteristics from numerous databases, as well as other sources and referrals, to identify prospective clients. Potential clients include acute care hospitals without existing behavioral health, physical rehabilitation or other programs as well as acute care hospitals with existing programs of which the Company could assume management. A select list of high priority candidates from these hospital profiles is systematically targeted based on criteria strategically formulated to identify acute care hospitals that are the most likely to need our services. This strategic approach allows the Company to maximize its resources in a more focused manner in order to achieve the goal of increased sales. Once identified, an internal telemarketing system is in place to contact and qualify the potential clients. A Vice President of Development, who typically acts as the point person on the sales team then contacts the prospective clients and, where appropriate, presents a detailed proposal to key decision-makers. The proposal often contains detailed operating and financial projections of the proposed programs. The Company works with the potential client to develop contract terms responsive to the client’s specific needs. The typical sales cycle for a management contract is approximately six to nine months. Operations and clinical management also participate in and support the sales process. The Company believes it has opportunity to cross-sell a range of services to client acute care hospitals and is pursuing such opportunities as a part of its business strategy. The local and regional community education and marketing is led by clinical and business development representatives at each of the Company’s behavioral health care programs and facilities. These individuals manage relationships among a variety of referral sources and potential referral sources in their respective communities. The Company’s EAP Services group markets employee assistance programs, including administrative service only programs, to employers both directly and through third party distribution channels. The Company assesses the individualized needs of the employer and its employees and customizes a program design accordingly. Competition The health care industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the method in which services are provided and the types of companies providing such services. The Company competes with several national competitors and many regional and local competitors, some of which have greater resources than the Company. In addition, acute care hospitals could elect to manage their own behavioral health or physical rehabilitation programs. Competition among contract managers for hospital-based behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs is generally based upon reputation for quality, price, the ability to provide financial and other benefits for the hospital, and the management, operational and clinical expertise necessary to enable the hospital to offer behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs that provide the full continuum of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services in a quality and cost-effective manner. The pressure to reduce health care expenditures has strengthened the need to manage the appropriateness of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services provided to patients. As a result, competitors without substantive management experience covering the various levels of the continuum of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services may not be able to compete successfully. The Company believes that its reputation and management expertise will enable it to compete successfully in this rapidly changing market. In addition, acute care hospitals offering behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs managed by the Company compete for patients with other providers of behavioral health care services, including other acute care hospitals, freestanding psychiatric hospitals, independent psychiatrists and psychologists, and with other providers of physical rehabilitation services, including other acute care hospitals, freestanding rehabilitation facilities and outpatient facilities. Freestanding behavioral health hospitals, owned by the Company, compete with other for-profit and tax-exempt freestanding providers, as well as behavioral health units operated within acute care hospitals. Freestanding behavioral health hospitals generally provide a broader array of behavioral health 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements services than those offered in acute care facilities. Children and adolescent services, in particular, are more readily available in freestanding behavioral health facilities. Service lines of freestanding behavioral health hospitals include a continuum of care ranging from intensive inpatient crisis intervention, longer-term residential treatment, group homes, and intensive outpatient services for children, adolescents and adults. The dynamics of healthcare, particularly behavioral health care, are as unique as the local market area in which they are provided. In addition, the behavioral healthcare marketplace is somewhat fragmented, and no individual national behavioral healthcare hospital chain enjoys a significant presence in any specific geographic market area. The employee assistance marketplace includes six large national providers as well as a number of mid-size regional and small local providers. The primary factors affecting competition in the EAP business are the range and quality of services provided, the ease of access to the services and price. A significant number of employers of all sizes offer employee assistance services to their employees as the benefit is designed to proactively address workplace and personal issues early so as to avoid absenteeism and thereby increase productivity. Customers frequently require sophisticated data that provides information regarding clinical utilization and outcomes, patient and provider satisfaction, administrative performance, and other performance related information. Customers The Company has no individual customer comprising 10% or more of its consolidated revenue or on which its overall operations or financial results are substantially dependent. See the “General Overview” section of MD&A included elsewhere in for the number of customer contracts as of August 31, 2005 and other related information. Employees At September 30, 2005, the Company had approximately 2,804 employees. By operating service group and corporate offices, the employee counts are as follows: Behavioral Health Contract Management Services 644 Behavioral Health Hospital Services 1,740 Physical Rehabilitation Contract Management Services 167 EAP Services 147 National Support Center 106 At September 30, 2005, the Company had contracts with 177 physicians as independent contractors to serve as medical directors providing administrative services for hospital clinical programs managed and hospital facilities owned/operated by the Company. The Company has no collective bargaining agreements with any unions and believes that its overall relations with its employees are good. Government Regulation The Company’s business is affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, behavioral health and physical rehabilitation facilities and reimbursement for such services. These regulations impact the development and operation of behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs managed by the Company for its client hospitals as well as the Company’s owned behavioral health hospitals. Licensing, certification, reimbursement and other applicable state and local government regulations vary by jurisdiction and are subject to periodic revision. The Company is not able to predict the content or impact of future changes in laws or regulations affecting the behavioral health or physical rehabilitation sectors. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Facility Use and Qualification Licensing and Certification Hospital facilities, including those owned by the Company, are subject to various federal, state and local regulations, including facilities use, licensure and inspection requirements, and licensing or certification requirements of federal, state and local health agencies. Many states also have certificate of need laws intended to avoid the proliferation of unnecessary or under-utilized health care services and facilities. The behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs that the Company manages are also subject to licensure and certification requirements. The Company assists its client hospitals in obtaining required approvals for new programs. Some approval processes may lengthen the time required for programs to commence operations. In granting and renewing a facility’s licenses, governmental agencies generally consider, among other factors, community needs, the physical condition of the facility, the qualifications of administrative and professional staff, the quality of professional and other services, and the continuing compliance of such facility with the laws and regulations applicable to its operations. The Company believes that the behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs it manages, the facilities of the client hospitals used in the operation of such programs, and the hospitals it owns, comply in all material respects with applicable licensing and certification requirements. The Company through its owned facilities is a provider reimbursed by Medicare and/or Medicaid. As such, the Company is subject to federal, state and local regulations governing their operation. These laws and regulations set forth requirements for licensure and qualifications to participate in government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These requirements pertain to the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, maintenance of adequate records, hospital use, rate-setting, and compliance with building codes and environmental protection laws. Additional regulations exist which govern a facilities participation in government programs. These facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government and other authorities to assure continued compliance with these regulations. The Company’s owned and operated facilities are properly licensed under the applicable state, local and federal rules and regulations. These facilities are also certified under the Medicare and Medicaid programs and are accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (“JCAHO”). Should one of the Company’s owned facilities lose its certification under the Medicare and/or Medicaid program, that facility would no longer receive reimbursement from the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. The Company believes that it’s owned facilities are in compliance in all material respects with current federal, state and local regulations governing their operation. Provider-Based Rules In April 2000, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or “CMS” (formerly the Health Care Financing Administration or “HCFA”) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) adopted new rules requiring a CMS determination that a facility has provider-based status before a provider can bill Medicare for the services rendered at the facility. On August 1, 2002 CMS issued amendments to the provider-based regulations, which in addition to requirements applicable to all provider based facilities, provide specific requirements for provider based status of “off-campus” locations and additional specific requirements applicable to “off-campus” locations operational under a management contract. In February 2002, it was clarified by CMS that inpatient rehabilitation units that are excluded from the inpatient prospective payment system for acute hospital services do not have to meet provider-based status in order to bill Medicare for services rendered to patients. The Company estimates that the revised regulations, while still subject to additional clarification as to specific applicability, will affect few of its psychiatric management contracts. The Company believes that the provider-based regulations will not have a significant impact on its current operations of inpatient psychiatric units located within general hospitals and will have no material impact on the Company’s owned inpatient psychiatric hospitals. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Medicare and Medicaid: Reimbursement for Services Background The Medicare program is a federally funded health insurance program for the elderly. The program is divided into Part A and Part B, each of which has separate rules and requirements. Part A pays for hospital, skilled nursing, home health agency, hospice, and dialysis services determined to be medically necessary for the individual patient. Part B is a voluntary medical benefits plan in which eligible individuals can enroll to receive benefits in addition to those available under Part A and for which they must pay a monthly premium. Part B covers non-institutional services, including physician services, outpatient hospital services, durable medical equipment, and laboratory services, among others. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which adopts regulations and issues interpretive memoranda and program manuals providing detailed explanation of the Medicare program. The payment operations of the Medicare program are handled by fiscal intermediaries (under Part A) and carriers (under Part B) who are insurance companies and Blue Cross/ Blue Shield plans which contract with the Secretary of HHS (the “Secretary”) to make Medicare payments to providers in a particular geographic region. Individual intermediaries and carriers issue transmittals, bulletins, notices, and general instructions to providers and suppliers in their respective areas to facilitate the administration of the Medicare program, but are required to follow the Medicare statute, CMS regulations, CMS transmittals, and the program manuals. Within these requirements, intermediaries and carriers are granted broad discretion to establish particular guidelines and procedures for making Medicare coverage determinations and payments, including prior approval, utilization limits, and specific documentation. Some fiscal intermediaries have developed Local Coverage Determinations (“LCD”). A LCD’s are rules established by a fiscal intermediary or carrier, which determines whether a particular service will be covered on an intermediary-wide or carrier-wide basis. This determination takes into account whether the service is reasonable and necessary in accordance with Section 1862(a)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act. The Company believes that the implementation of LCDs will have no material impact on the Company. The Medicaid program is a joint federal-state cooperative arrangement established for the purpose of enabling states to furnish medical assistance on behalf of aged, blind, or disabled individuals, or members of families with dependent children, whose income and resources are insufficient to meet the costs of necessary medical services. The federal and state governments share the costs. The Secretary has primary federal responsibility for administering the Medicaid program that has been delegated to CMS. States are not required to participate in the Medicaid program. States that choose to participate, however, must administer their Medicaid programs in accordance with federal law, the implementing regulations and policies of the Secretary, and their approved state plans. The federal Medicaid statute establishes minimum standards for state plans but states have significant latitude, within these standards, to determine the mix of services and structure of their state Medicaid programs. In order to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, each client or owned hospital or facility must meet applicable requirements promulgated by HHS relating to the type of facility, personnel, standards of patient care and compliance with all state and local laws, rules and regulations. The Company has a comprehensive code of conduct and regulatory compliance program and believes that the programs it manages and its owned hospitals comply in all material respects with applicable Medicare and Medicaid requirements. Federal law contains certain provisions designed to ensure that services rendered by hospitals to Medicare and Medicaid patients are medically necessary and meet professionally recognized standards. These provisions include a requirement that admissions of Medicare and Medicaid patients to hospitals must be reviewed in a timely manner to determine the medical necessity of the admissions. In addition, these provisions state that a hospital may be required by the federal government to reimburse the government for the cost of Medicare-reimbursed services that are determined by a peer review organization to have been medically unnecessary. As part of its on-going regulatory and regulatory compliance program initiatives, the Company for its owned hospitals, and the Company and its client hospitals for managed programs have developed and implemented quality assurance programs and procedures for utilization review and retrospective patient care evaluation intended to meet these requirements. Overview Most of the Company’s client hospitals and its owned hospitals receive reimbursement under one or more of the Medicare or Medicaid programs, private insurers, including commercial and managed care plans, as well as reimbursement directly from patients for behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services provided in programs managed or owned by the Company. With respect to the management contracts, the Company is paid a fee directly by the client hospitals for its management services. While fees paid to the Company by client hospitals are generally not subject to or based upon reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from any other third-party payor, under many of its management 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements contracts the Company is obligated to refund a portion of its fee if Medicare denies reimbursement for an individual patient treatment, or its fee if the fee paid to the Company is denied by Medicare as a reimbursable cost. Historically, such reimbursement amounts have been insignificant. However, since a substantial portion of the patients of the programs managed by the Company are covered by Medicare, changes which limit or reduce Medicare reimbursement levels could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s client hospitals and, in turn, on the Company With respect to the Company’s owned facilities, all hospital facilities participating in the Medicare program and some Medicaid programs are required to meet certain financial reporting requirements. These requirements require the submission of annual cost reports identifying the medical expenses relative to the services provided by a given facility to Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid dependents. Annual cost reports required under these programs are subject to routine governmental audits, which may result in adjustments to the amounts due to the provider under these reimbursement programs. These audits often require several years to reach the final entitlement earned by the provider under the programs. The Medicare fiscal intermediary issues a Notice of Program Reimbursement (“NPR”) after audit, and amounts due to or from the provider are determined. These amounts are due and payable within 30 days of receipt of the NPR. Providers have the right to appeal and contest issues identified in prior year cost report audits. As noted below, Medicare has enacted a prospective payment system for inpatient behavioral health services that is being phased in over several years. The Company owns hospital facilities and employs individuals who provide medical and clinical services that are reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. The Company also provides contract management services to such providers for which the Company is not reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. Nevertheless, the Company could be considered subject to federal and state healthcare laws applicable to the provision of such services. While the Company believes that its relationships with its client hospitals, medical directors and other providers and the fee arrangements with its client hospitals are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid criteria, those criteria are often general and ambiguous in nature and subject to interpretation, sometimes differently by different Medicare fiscal intermediaries who administer the programs on behalf of the federal government. In addition, the federal government has been actively investigating health care providers for potential abuses. There can be no assurance that aggressive anti-fraud enforcement actions will not adversely affect the business of the Company. Other Reimbursement Payors In addition to reimbursement provided by the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the Companies owned behavioral health hospital facilities receive reimbursement for certain behavioral health services by private payors including health maintenance organizations (“HMO’s), preferred provider organizations (“PPO’s”), commercial insurance companies, employers and individuals. Generally, patients covered by HMO’s, PPO’s and other private payors will be responsible for certain co-payments and deductibles, which are paid by the patient. Behavioral Health Reimbursement Changes In the mid-1980’s, changes in reimbursement rates and procedures included the creation of the Prospective Payment System (“PPS”) using predetermined reimbursement rates for diagnosis related groups (“DRGs”). The DRG system established fixed payment amounts per discharge for diagnoses generally provided by acute care hospitals. Behavioral health services provided by an acute care hospital may qualify for an exemption as a distinct part unit (“DPU”). Freestanding psychiatric hospitals are also exempt from the DRG system. Psychiatric services provided by DPUs and freestanding psychiatric hospitals were reimbursed on an actual cost basis, subject to certain limitations for cost reporting periods beginning on or before December 31, 2004. The behavioral health programs managed by the Company which are eligible for reimbursement by the Medicare program currently meet the applicable requirements for exemption as DPUs, where desired. On November 15, 2004, CMS published a final rule for a prospective payment system for Medicare reimbursement for inpatient behavioral health services, including those provided by programs managed or facilities directly owned by the Company as discussed below. A substantial number 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of the behavioral health treatment programs managed by the Company are geropsychiatric programs for which the majority of the patients are covered by Medicare. Additionally, approximately 13% of the patients treated by the behavioral health hospitals owned by the Company are Medicare beneficiaries. The Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 mandated that PPS for inpatient psychiatric services be developed. On November 15, 2004 CMS published final rules in the Federal Register for the psychiatric inpatient PPS. The PPS rule is effective for Medicare cost reporting years that commence on or after January 1, 2005. The final PPS rules provide for a per diem PPS system phased in over a four-year period. The per diem rate has patient specific adjustments based on age, diagnosis, comorbidities and electro convulsive therapy treatments. The per diem has facility adjustments based on wage index, rural designation, teaching designation, cost of living adjustments and an adjustment for psychiatric facilities with full-service emergency departments. In addition the per diem rate is increased in days 1 through 8 of the patient’s stay, and incrementally decreases thereafter until day 22 of the patients stay. The Company believes that the new PPS rules will affect the hospitals with which it has management contracts both positively and negatively on a case-by-case basis. The new PPS rules have stop loss protection against significant decreases in reimbursement, during the PPS phase in period, for cost reporting years beginning in calendar year 2005. The Company cannot be definitive about the overall effect of the new PPS rules, which could have an adverse effect on the contract management business for behavioral health units in the 2006 cost reporting year or thereafter. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated the elimination of cost-based reimbursement of mental health partial hospitalization services (except as stated below). As a result, PPS for Partial Hospitalization Programs (“PHP”) was implemented generally effective August 1, 2000. The resulting reimbursement for partial hospitalization services based on the Medicare outpatient PPS utilizes a fixed reimbursement amount per patient day. These rates lowered Medicare reimbursement levels to many hospitals for partial hospitalization services. This change, in general, adversely affected the ability of the Company to maintain and/or obtain management contracts for partial hospitalization services and the amount of fees paid to the Company under such contracts. The base reimbursement rate, for partial hospitalization programs operating under PPS, decreased from $287 per day for 2004 to $281 effective January 1, 2005. On November 2, 2005, CMS decreased this rate by 15% to $246 effective January 1, 2006. However, the Company at this time has not ascertained specifically the effect of this change on a facilty-by-facilty basis and cannot be definitive about its overall effect. Hospitals that are in a designated rural area and have less than 100 acute care beds effectively were able to continue cost based reimbursement for PHP services initially until December 31, 2003. However, on December 8, 2003, this was extended to December 31, 2005 with the passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Effective January 1, 2006, they are scheduled to operate under PPS unless the law is again amended. This change in reimbursement methodology, if made, may lower Medicare reimbursement levels to this type of hospital. Physical Rehabilitation Reimbursement Changes Acute rehabilitation units within acute-care hospitals were previously eligible as exempt DPU’s under a cost-based reimbursement system prior to January 1, 2002. Beginning January 1, 2002, acute rehabilitation units began transitioning to PPS. As of September 1, 2003 all physical rehabilitation services have been transitioned to the PPS. On August 15, 2005, CMS published a final rule to change the inpatient rehabilitation facility PPS to be effective October 1, 2005. The rule incorporates a market basket increase of 3.6% and an increase in the payment rate adjustment for inpatient rehabilitation facilities in rural areas from 19.14% to 21.30%. CMS is also incorporating a 1.9% across-the-board reduction in the standard payment amount based on recent evidence indicating that coding increases, rather than actual changes in patient acuity, have caused increases in payments to inpatient rehabilitation facilities. The final rule also refined the inpatient rehabilitation facility classification system to reflect recent data on case mix groups, relative weights and the impact of illnesses or conditions other than the admitting diagnosis on the costs of treating a beneficiary. In addition, the final rule adopted the revised Core Based Statistical Area (CBSA) market area definitions as 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements announced by the Office of Management and Budget for inpatient rehabilitation facilities; however, the final rule allowed for a transition to the new CBSA designations. For Federal Fiscal Year 2006 the wage index will be a 50/50 blend of the MSA and CBSA designation wage indices and for Federal Fiscal Year 2007 only the CBSA designation wage index will be utilized. The Company does not believe this final rule will have a significant impact on its revenues from rehabilitation services. CMS published final rules in the May 7, 2004 Federal Register to modify the criteria for being classified as an inpatient rehabilitation facility. The final rule, known as the “75% Rule”, generally requires that in order to meet the qualification requirement, 75% of the patients of a physical rehabilitation services unit must have certain qualifying medical conditions. The final rule has a 4-year phase-in period to allow inpatient rehabilitation facilities time to adjust to the new rule. The first year compliance percentage is 50%; the second year percentage is 60%; the third year percentage is 65% and in the fourth year and thereafter, the compliance percentage is 75%. The final rule also eliminates polyarthritis as a qualifying medical condition and adds three other arthritis diagnoses that are more restrictive. As a result, patients that previously met the polyarthritis conditions may no longer meet the specific qualifying medical condition required under the new rule. The final rule also added a new restrictive category for certain knee or hip joint replacements. The effective date for these final rules is for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2004. The final rules as adopted, unless suspended or modified, could have an adverse effect on the rehabilitation programs managed by the Company. Potential Adverse Impacts of Changes in Reimbursement The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective rate adjustments, administrative rulings and funding restrictions, any of which could have the effect of limiting or reducing reimbursement levels to general acute care hospitals and freestanding psychiatric hospitals for behavioral health and physical rehabilitation services provided by programs managed or facilities owned by the Company. The Company cannot predict whether any changes to such government programs will be adopted or, if adopted, the effect, if any, such changes will have on the Company. Also, Medicare retrospectively audits cost reports of client hospitals upon which Medicare reimbursement for services rendered in the programs managed by the Company is based. Accordingly, the Company could be contractually obligated to make refunds to client hospitals for prior year cost reports that have not been audited and settled at the date hereof. The cost reports are prepared by the client hospitals independent of the Company, which does not participate in, nor offer advice on, their preparation. Any significant decrease in Medicare reimbursement levels, the imposition of significant restrictions on participation in the Medicare program, or the disallowance by Medicare of any significant portion of the client hospital’s costs, including the fee to the Company, where the Company has a reimbursement denial repayment obligation, could adversely affect the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that hospitals which offer behavioral health or physical rehabilitation programs now or hereafter managed by the Company will satisfy the requirements for participation in Medicare or Medicaid programs. Payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, are attempting to manage costs, resulting in declining amounts paid or reimbursed to hospitals for the services provided for inpatient services. As a result, the number of patients served by general acute care and freestanding psychiatric hospitals on a per diem, episodic or capitated basis may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that if amounts paid or reimbursed to hospitals decline, it will not adversely affect the Company. The target rate limitations, the PPS limitations, and other rules such as the 75% Rule, have resulted, or may result, in some cases, in decreased amounts reimbursed to the Company’s client hospitals. This decrease in reimbursement has led, or may lead, in some cases, to the renegotiation of a lower contract management fee structure for the Company and in other cases has resulted, or may result, in termination or non-renewal of the management contract, or closure of the program. Similarly such limitations and rules to the extent applicable, have resulted or may result, in some cases, to lower reimbursements to the Company’s owned hospital facilities and could affect the continued viability of the particular services or of the hospital. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Patient Referral Laws Various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between health care providers and referral sources, including federal and state fraud and abuse laws prohibiting individuals and entities from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration in order to induce referrals for the furnishing of health care services or items. These federal laws generally apply only to referrals for items or services reimbursed under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or any state health care program. The objective of these laws is generally to ensure that the purpose of a referral is quality of needed care and not monetary gain by the referring party. Violations of such laws can result in felony criminal penalties, civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, 42 U.S.C. d 1320a-7b, prohibits the knowing and willful solicitation or receipt of any remuneration “in return for” referring an individual, or for recommending or arranging for the purchase, lease, or ordering, of any item or service for which payment may be made under Medicare or a state health care program. In addition, the statute prohibits the offer or payment of remuneration “to induce” a person to refer an individual, or to recommend or arrange for the purchase, lease, or ordering of any item or service for which payment may be made under the Medicare or state health care programs. The statute contains exceptions for certain discounts, group purchasing organizations, employment relationships, waivers of coinsurance by community health centers, health plans, and practices defined in regulatory safe harbors. On April 3, 2003 the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) issued an advisory opinion in which it declined to provide prospective protection from the Medicare Anti-Kickback Statue to a proposed contract to manage rehabilitation services under which the compensation was based on a variable fee. The OIG opinion was only applicable to the specific situation presented and did not advise that variable fees were improper in and of themselves. Under a significant number of its management contracts, the Company receives a variable fee related in part to average daily patient census or number of admissions or discharges in a given period for the behavioral health or physical rehabilitation program. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements with physicians to serve as medical directors at the behavioral health and physical rehabilitation programs and facilities managed by the Company, which generally provide for payments to such persons by the Company as compensation for their administrative services. These medical directors also generally provide professional services at such programs and facilities. In 1991, regulations were issued under federal fraud and abuse laws creating certain “safe harbors” for relationships between health care providers and referral sources. Any relationship that satisfies the terms of the safe harbor is considered permitted. Failure to satisfy a safe harbor, however, does not mean that the relationship is prohibited. Although the contracts and relationships between the Company and its client hospitals and medical directors are not within the safe harbors, the Company believes that such contracts and relationships comply with applicable laws. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s activities, while not challenged thus far, will not be challenged by regulatory authorities in the future. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 contains provisions (“Stark II”) prohibiting physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician has a “financial relationship” for the furnishing of a list of “designated health services” including physical therapy, occupational therapy, home health services, and others. If a financial relationship exists, the entity is generally prohibited from claiming payment for such services under the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Compensation arrangements are generally exempted from the Stark provisions if, among other things, the compensation to be paid is set in advance, does not exceed fair market value and is not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume or value of any referrals or other business generated between the parties. Other provisions in the Social Security Act authorize other penalties, including exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid, for various billing-related offenses. HHS can also initiate 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements permissive exclusion actions for such improper billing practices as submitting claims “substantially in excess” of the provider’s usual costs or charges, failure to disclose ownership and officers, or failure to disclose subcontractors and suppliers. Executive Order 12549 prohibits any corporation or facility from participating in federal contracts if it or its principals have been disbarred, suspended or are ineligible, or have been voluntarily excluded, from participating in federal contracts. A principal has been defined as an officer, director, owner, partner, key employee or other person with primary management or supervisory responsibilities. Additionally “HIPAA” granted expanded enforcement authority to HHS and the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), and provided enhanced resources to support the activities and responsibilities of the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of HHS and DOJ by authorizing large increases in funding for investigating fraud and abuse violations relating to health care delivery and payment. On January 24, 1997, the OIG issued guidelines for the Fraud and Abuse Control Program as mandated by the Act, and on February 19, 1997 issued an interim final rule establishing procedures for seeking advisory opinions on the application on the anti-kickback statute and certain other fraud and abuse laws. The 1997 Balanced Budget Act also includes numerous health fraud provisions, including: new exclusion authority for the transfer of ownership or control interest in an entity to an immediate family or household member in anticipation of, or following, a conviction, assessment, or exclusion; increased mandatory exclusion periods for multiple health fraud convictions, including permanent exclusion for those convicted of three health care-related crimes; authority of the Secretary to refuse to enter into Medicare agreements with convicted felons; new civil money penalties for contracting with an excluded provider or violating the Medicare and Medicaid antikickback statute; new surety bond and information disclosure requirements for certain providers and suppliers; and an expansion of the mandatory and permissive exclusions added by HIPAA to any federal health care program (other than the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program). In addition, federal and some state laws impose restrictions on referrals for certain designated health services by physicians and, in a few states, psychologists and other behavioral health care professionals to entities with which they have financial relationships. The Company believes that its operations comply with these restrictions to the extent applicable, although no assurance can be given regarding compliance in any particular factual situation. Federal legislation has been considered to expand current law from its application to Medicare and Medicaid business to all payors and to additional health services. Certain states are considering adopting similar restrictions or expanding the scope of existing restrictions. There can be no assurance that the federal government or other states in which the Company operates will not enact similar or more restrictive legislation or restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, adversely impact the Company’s operations. Behavioral Health Care Patient Rights Many states have adopted “patient bill of rights” regulations, which set forth standards for least restrictive treatment, patient confidentiality, patient access to mail and telephones, patient access to legal counsel and requirements that patients be treated with dignity. There are also laws and regulations relating to the civil commitment of patients to behavioral health programs, disclosure of information concerning patient treatments and related matters. The Company believes that its operations comply with the laws and regulations, although no assurance can be given regarding compliance in any particular factual situation. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Name Age Position James K. Newman 61 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board David K. White, Ph.D. 49 President and Chief Operating Officer John E. Pitts 40 Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Donald W. Thayer 56 Executive Vice President, Acquisitions and Development David K. Meyercord 58 Executive Vice President, Administration and General Counsel Frank J. Baumann 46 Senior Vice President, Operations 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements James K. Newman has served as Chairman of the Board since February 1992. On April 28, 2003 he re-assumed the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, a position he held from July 1989 through August 1997. Mr. Newman served as a consultant to the Company from September 1997 through April 2003. Mr. Newman currently serves as a director of United Surgical Partners, Inc., a health care company engaged in the operation of ambulatory surgical centers, and of Telecare Corporation, a privately held behavioral health service provider. David K. White, Ph.D. was appointed by the Board of Directors as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company effective April 21, 2005. Dr. White had been Senior Vice President - Operations since November 1, 1998. Effective September 28, 2002, he was appointed President – Behavioral Health Services. He formerly served as Executive Vice President - Operations from February 1998 to October 1998. He was a Regional Vice President from September 1996 to January 1998. He also served as a Regional Director of Operations from April 1995 to August 1996. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Charles River Health Management, Inc., a contract behavioral health management company focusing on the public and private sector, from December 1990 to November 1994. John E. Pitts was promoted to Executive Vice President on September 20, 2005. Mr. Pitts was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company at the October 22, 2004 Board of Directors meeting following his appointment as Senior Vice President - Finance and Principal Financial Officer on September 10, 2004. He was formerly Vice President - Finance and Principal Accounting Officer since October 16, 2003 and had been Vice President—Controller since November 1, 2001. Mr. Pitts had previously served the Company in various accounting positions from December 9, 1993 through October 31, 2001. Donald W. Thayer was promoted to Executive Vice President-Acquisitions and Development on September 20, 2005. Mr. Thayer had served as the Senior Vice President-Acquisitions and Development since September 2003. He formerly served as the Managing Director-Mergers and Acquisitions for B.C. Ziegler and Company from December 2001 to September 2003. From July 2000 to November 2001 he was an independent consultant working under multiple consulting agreements to provide acquisition and development services. Mr. Thayer served as Vice President-Acquisition and Development from July 1978 through July 2000 for Tenet Healthcare Corporation. David K. Meyercord was promoted to Executive Vice President Administration and General Counsel on September 20, 2005. Mr. Meyercord joined the company as Senior Vice President and General Counsel on July 6, 2004. Effective September 10, 2004, his title was changed to Senior Vice President - Administration and General Counsel as a result of a change in responsibilities. Prior to July 2004, Mr. Meyercord had been a partner in the law firm of Strasburger & Price, LLP, a Dallas-based law firm. He had been a member of that law firm since 1975 and served as its managing partner from 1990 to 1998. He had represented the Company as outside general counsel since its inception. Frank J. Baumann has been Senior Vice President – Operations since March 22, 1999. He was President – ProCare One Nurses from June 2002 to October 2003 and had oversight responsibility for that service group until its sale on August 29, 2005. He has been President – Physical Rehabilitation Services since March 1999. He formerly served as a Regional Vice President from March 1997 to March 1999. He was also a Regional Director of Operations from November 1996 to March 1997. He was Chief Executive Officer of Mountain Crest Behavioral Healthcare Systems, a freestanding psychiatric hospital, from August 1994 to November 1996. Officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors of the Company and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors until their respective successors are elected and qualified. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 