Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 26 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B. Other Information 59 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 59 Item 11. Executive Compensation 59 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 59 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Directors Independence 59 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 60 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 60 Signatures 113 EX-10.9 EX-10.10 EX-10.17 EX-10.18 EX-10.29 EX-21.01 EX-23.01 EX-23.02 EX-31.01 EX-31.02 EX-32.01 EX-32.02 1 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Generally, forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include words or phrases such as “believes,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” and words and phrases of similar impact. The forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future operations, business strategy, business environment and key trends, as well as statements related to expected financial and other benefits from our organizational restructuring activities. Many of these factors will be important in determining our actual future results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be incorrect. They may be based on inaccurate assumptions or may not account for known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report, except as required by law. All of the foregoing forward-looking statements are expressly qualified by the risk factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to the global financial crisis, restrictions and other financial covenants in our credit facility, volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, our restructuring efforts, the restatement of our financial statements, consolidation in the financial services industry, changes in the financial services industry, the accuracy of backlog estimates, the cyclical nature of our revenue and earnings, exposure to unknown tax liabilities, volatility in our stock price, risks from operating internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increased competition, our offshore software development activities, the performance of our strategic product, BASE24-eps, the maturity of certain products, our strategy to migrate customers to our next generation products, ratable or deferred recognition of certain revenue associated with customer migrations and the maturity of certain of our products, demand for our products, failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or to obtain such renewals on favorable terms, delay or cancellation of customer projects or inaccurate project completion estimates, business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems, our alliance with International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”), our outsourcing agreement with IBM, the complexity of our products and services and the risk that they may contain hidden defects or be subjected to security breaches or viruses, compliance of our products with applicable governmental regulations and industry standards, our compliance with privacy regulations, the protection of our intellectual property in intellectual property litigation, future acquisitions and investments and litigation. The cautionary statements in this report expressly qualify all of our forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A in the section entitled “Risk Factors”. Trademarks and Service Marks ACI, the ACI logo, BASE24-eps, BASE24, OpeN/2, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of ACI Worldwide, Inc., or one of its subsidiaries, in the United States and/or other countries. ACI Enterprise Banker, ACI Global Banker, ACI Retail Commerce Server, AS/X, ACI Issuer, ACI Acquirer, ACI Interchange, ACI Token Management, ACI Payments Manager, ACI Card Management System, ACI Smart Chip Manager, ACI Dispute Management System, ACI Simulation Services for Enterprise Testing or ASSET, ACI Money Transfer System, NET24, ACI Proactive Risk Manager, PRM, ACI Automated Case Management System, ACI Communication Services, ACI Enterprise Security Services, ACI Web Access Services, ACI Monitoring and Management and ACI DataWise, among others, have pending registrations or are common-law trademarks and/or service marks of ACI Worldwide, Inc., or one of its subsidiaries, in the United States and/or other countries. Other parties’ marks referred to in this report are the property of their respective owners. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General ACI Worldwide, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and our subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “ACI”, “ACI Worldwide”, the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) develop, market, install and support a broad line of software products and services primarily focused on facilitating electronic payments. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. These products and services are used principally by financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors, both in domestic and international markets. Most of our products are sold and supported through distribution networks covering three geographic regions — the Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia/Pacific. Each distribution network has its own sales force that it supplements with independent reseller and/or distributor networks. Our products are marketed under the ACI Worldwide brand. The electronic payments market is comprised of financial institutions, retailers, third-party electronic payment processors, payment associations, switch interchanges and a wide range of transaction-generating endpoints, including automated teller machines (“ATM”), retail merchant locations, bank branches, mobile phones, corporations and Internet commerce sites. The authentication, authorization, switching, settlement and reconciliation of electronic payments is a complex activity due to the large number of locations and variety of sources from which transactions can be generated, the large number of participants in the market, high transaction volumes, geographically dispersed networks, differing types of authorization, and varied reporting requirements. These activities are typically performed online and are often conducted 24 hours a day, seven days a week. ACI Worldwide, Inc. was formed as a Delaware corporation in November 1993 under the name ACI Holding, Inc. and is largely the successor to Applied Communications, Inc. and Applied Communications Inc. Limited, which we acquired from Tandem Computers Incorporated on December 31, 1993. On July 24, 2007, our stockholders approved the adoption of an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to change our corporate name from “Transaction Systems Architects, Inc.” to “ACI Worldwide, Inc.”. We have been marketing our products and services under the ACI Worldwide brand since 1993 and have gained significant market recognition under this brand name. On February 23, 2007, our Board of Directors approved a change in the Company’s fiscal year from a September 30 fiscal year-end to a December 31 fiscal year-end, effective as of January 1, 2008 for the year ended December 31, 2008. In accordance with applicable Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules and regulations, we filed a Transition Report on Form 10-Q for the transition period from October 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, with the SEC on February 19, 2008. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements included herein present our financial position as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of our operations, cash flows and changes in stockholders’ equity for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the three month period ended December 31, 2007, and the year ended September 30, 2007. Acquisitions On February 7, 2007, we acquired Visual Web Solutions, Inc. (“Visual Web”), a provider of international trade finance and web-based cash management solutions, primarily to financial institutions in the Asia/Pacific region. These solutions complement and have been integrated with our U.S.-centric cash management and online banking solutions to create a more complete international offering. Visual Web had wholly-owned subsidiaries in Singapore for sales and customer support and in Bangalore, India for product development and services. The aggregate purchase price of Visual Web, including direct costs of the acquisition, was $8.3 million, net of $1.1 million of cash acquired. Under the terms of the acquisition, the parties established a cash escrow arrangement in which $1.1 million of the cash consideration paid at closing is held in escrow as security for tax and other contingencies. 3 Table of Contents On April 2, 2007, we acquired Stratasoft Sdn Bhd (“Stratasoft”), a provider of electronic payment solutions in Malaysia. This acquisition complements our strategy to move to a direct sales model in selected markets in Asia. The aggregate purchase price of Stratasoft, including direct costs of the acquisition, was $2.5 million, net of $0.7 million of cash acquired. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we paid an additional amount of $0.5 million to the sellers as Stratasoft achieved certain financial targets set forth in the purchase agreement for the period ended December 31, 2008. On November 17, 2009, the Company acquired certain intellectual property, trade names, customer contracts and working capital of Euronet Essentis Limited (“Essentis”), a division of Euronet Worldwide, Inc. Essentis, based in Watford, England, is a provider of card issuing and merchant acquiring solutions around the world. The aggregate purchase price of Essentis was 3.9 million British pounds sterling (approximately $6.6 million). Assets of Businesses Transferred Under Contractual Arrangements On September 29, 2006, we entered into an agreement whereby certain assets and liabilities related to our MessagingDirect business and WorkPoint product line were legally conveyed to an unrelated party for a total selling price of $3.0 million to be paid in annual installments through 2010. The note receivable was not recorded due to uncertainty of collection. As of December 31, 2008, the remaining unpaid balance of the note receivable was $1.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold our right to further payments on the note receivable to a third-party for $1.0 million, which was recorded as a pretax gain. See Note 16, “Assets of Businesses Transferred Under Contractual Arrangements”, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Products Our software products perform a wide range of functions designed to facilitate electronic payments. Generally, our products address three primary market segments: • Retail banking, including debit and credit card issuers • Wholesale banking, including corporate cash management and treasury management operations • Retailers In addition, we market our solutions to third-party electronic payment processors, who serve all three of the above market segments. We also offer solutions that are not industry-specific, but complement our payments products, to address needs for systems connectivity, data synchronization, testing and simulation and systems monitoring. Our products cover four different domains within the payments business: • Initiate — the initiation of payments through online banking systems • Manage — the management of a payment through its lifecycle which we split into Retail Payment Engines, Back Office Services and Wholesale Payment Engines • Secure — the securing of payments against fraud and money laundering • Operate — the infrastructure needed to operate a payments system The sections below provide an overview of our major software products within these domains. In September 2009, we announced the ACI Agile Payments Solution, the vision for our payments products. The vision recognizes the long term direction to migrate payments processing from the current discrete structures to a common service-based delivery mechanism. While we are evolving our service offerings into the ACI Agile Payments Solution reference architecture, financial organizations can benefit from the enterprise capabilities of the existing product suite and start moving towards an agile payments environment. 4 Table of Contents Initiate Products Within the Initiate domain, ACI has two products: • ACI Enterprise Banker is a comprehensive Internet-based business banking product for financial institutions including banks, brokerage firms and credit unions and can be flexibly packaged for small, medium and large business customers. This product provides these customers with electronic payment initiation capability, information reporting, and numerous other payment related services that allow the business customer to manage all its banking needs via the Internet. • ACI Global Banker provides single-window access to corporate cash management, trade finance, FX services, reporting and data exchange. Global Banker supports single-window, Single Sign-On access to a bank’s corporate Internet banking platform. This enterprise-wide, multi-country, multi-language, multi-currency solution allows banks of all sizes to uniquely package products and services for different countries and segments — or even individual customers — from a single, flexible platform. Manage — Retail Payment Engines Generally, our retail payment engines are designed to route electronic payment transactions from transaction generators to the acquiring institutions so that they can be authorized for payment. The software often interfaces with regional or national switches to access the account-holding financial institution or card issuer for approval or denial of the transactions (authorization). The software returns messages to the original transaction generator (e.g. an ATM), thereby completing the transactions. Depending on how the software is configured, it can perform all of the functions necessary to authenticate, authorize, route and settle an electronic payment transaction, or it can interact with other systems to ensure that these functions are performed. Electronic payments software may be required to interact with dozens of devices, switch interchanges and communication protocols around the world. We currently offer six retail payment engine solutions, as follows: • BASE24-eps is an integrated electronic payments processing product marketed to customers operating electronic payment networks in the retail banking and retail industries. The modular architecture of the product enables customers to select the application and system components that are required to operate their networks. BASE24-eps offers a broad range of features and functions for electronic payment processing. BASE24-eps allows customers to adapt to changing network needs by supporting 12 different types of ATM and five different types of point of sale (“POS”) terminals, 48 interchange interfaces, and various authentication, authorization and reporting options and with standardized acceptance formats enabling processing of transactions from sources such as internet banking, branch or mobile systems. BASE24-eps uses an object-based architecture and languages such as C++ and Java to offer a more flexible, open architecture for the processing of a wide range of electronic payment transactions. BASE24-eps also uses a scripting language to improve overall transaction processing flexibility and improve time to market for new services, reducing the need for traditional systems modifications. BASE24-eps is licensed as a standalone electronic payments solution for financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors. BASE24-eps, which operates on IBM System z, IBM System p, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”) NonStop, HP-UX and Sun Solaris servers, provides flexible integration points to other applications and data within enterprises to support 24-hour per day access to money, services and information. On the HP NonStop platform, BASE24-eps uses NET24-XPNET, an ACI developed message oriented middleware solution. • ACI Retail Commerce Server is an integrated suite of electronic payments products that facilitate a broad range of capabilities, specifically focused on retailers. These capabilities include debit and credit card processing, automated clearing house (“ACH”) processing, electronic benefits transfer, card issuance and management, check authorization, customer loyalty programs and returned check collection. The Retail Commerce Server product line operates on open systems technologies such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX and Linux, with most of the current installations deployed on the Microsoft Windows platform. ACI continues to support and maintain a number of other retail payments engines which are no longer sold to new customers. 5 Table of Contents • BASE24 is an integrated family of software products marketed to customers operating electronic payment networks in the retail banking and retail industries. A substantial portion of ACI’s revenues are derived from licensing the BASE24 family of products and providing related services and maintenance as it has been the core of the ACI business since the Company’s inception. The BASE24 product line operates exclusively on HP NonStop servers. The HP NonStop parallel-processing environment offers fault-tolerance, linear expandability and distributed processing capabilities. The combination of features offered by BASE24 and the HP NonStop technology are important characteristics in high volume, 24-hour per day electronic payment systems. BASE24 makes use of NET24-XPNET, an ACI developed message oriented middleware solution. BASE24-eps was developed specifically to take the BASE24 functionality to a new more flexible architecture, responding to customers’ ideas, as well as allow the functionality to be delivered on a range of hardware platforms. • ON/2 is an integrated electronic payments processing system, exclusively designed for the Stratus VOS operating environment. It authenticates, authorizes, routes and switches transactions generated at ATMs and merchant POS sites. • OpeN/2 is an integrated electronic payments processing system, designed for open-systems environments such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX and Linux. It offers a wide range of electronic payments processing capabilities for financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors. • AS/X a product acquired in the eps AG acquisition, is an integrated electronic payments processing system designed for open-systems environments such as UNIX. It supports a wide range of electronic payments processing capabilities for financial institutions and electronic payment processors in Germany and Switzerland. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the three month period ended December 31, 2007, and the year ended September 30, 2007, approximately 46%, 47%, 51%, and 49%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from licensing the BASE24 product line, which revenue amounts do not include revenue associated with licensing the BASE24-eps product. Manage — Back Office Services ACI Back Office Services are card issuing and merchant management solutions which have been successfully used by the payments industry for many years. These products run on IBM System z, various Unix and Microsoft Windows servers. The products within back office services are: • ACI Issuer, acquired in the Essentis acquisition, is a modern card and account management system. It has been developed to support national, international, and global financial institutions. The system has full multi-currency, multi-product, multi-institution and multi-language capabilities. It manages card portfolios in different countries and for different issuers on a single platform and has been built to fully comply with EMV standards. • ACI Acquirer, acquired in the Essentis acquisition, supports the full life cycle of merchant portfolio management, including merchant boarding, transaction acquisition, interchange fee qualification, settlement and statement generation. The system is enabled with the flexibility acquirers require for complex merchant portfolios. • ACI Interchange, acquired in the Essentis acquisition, is the central monetary transaction manager, processing all incoming customer transactions and maintaining a central transactions database. ACI Interchange also manages the clearing and settlement communication with the major international payment schemes, ensuring compliance with Visa, MasterCard, American Express and JCB. The module can easily be adapted to manage clearing and settlement with additional networks such as domestic payment schemes. • ACI Token Management consists of the ANDiS suite of products from ACI’s partner Bell ID. The ANDiS Smart Card & Application Management System provides for central life-cycle management of smart cards and other tokens as well as the management of the applications activated within the scheme. The ANDiS Key 6 Table of Contents Management System facilitates the implementation of security concepts based on the generation, storage, recovery, import and distribution of cryptographic keys. The keys are used for encryption and decryption of data and for verification and authorization of trusted parties using digital certificates. • ACI Payments Manager is an integrated, modular software solution that automates the processing, settlement and reconciliation of electronic transactions, as well as provides plastic card issuance and account management. This product is now primarily marketed in North America. ACI continues to support and maintain several other back office services products which are no longer sold to new customers. • ACI Card Management System is a complete plastic card system for issuing cards, maintaining account information, tracking card usage and providing customer service. • ACI Smart Chip Manager supports the deployment of stored-value and other chip card applications used at smart card-enabled devices. • ACI Dispute Management System provides issuers the ability to work retail discrepancies caused by processing errors, disputes, charge backs and fraud. Manage — Wholesale Payment Engine Our wholesale payments solutions are focused on global, super-regional and regional financial institutions that provide treasury management services to large corporations. In addition, the market includes non-bank financial institutions with the need to conduct their own internal treasury management activities. Our wholesale payments solutions include high value payments processing, bulk payments processing, global messaging and Continuous Link Settlement processing, and are collectively referred to as the ACI Money Transfer System. The high value payments processing products, which produce the majority of revenues within the MTS solution set, are used to generate, authorize, route, settle and control high value wire transfer transactions in domestic and international environments. The ACI Money Transfer System product operates on IBM System p servers using the AIX operating system and communicates over proprietary networks using a variety of messaging formats, including S.W.I.F.T., EBA, Target, Ellips, CEC, RTGSplus, Fedwire, CHIPS and Telex. Secure Products • ACI Proactive Risk Manager (“PRM”). PRM is a neural network-based fraud detection system designed to help card issuers, merchants, merchant acquirers and financial institutions combat fraud schemes. The system combines the pattern recognition capability of neural-network transaction scoring with custom risk models of expert rules-based strategies and advanced client/server account management software. PRM operates on IBM System z, HP NonStop, Sun Solaris and Microsoft Windows servers. There are six editions of PRM, each of which is tailored for specific industry needs. The six editions are debit, credit, merchant, private label, money laundering detection and enterprise. • ACI Automated Case Management System. The ACI Automated Case Management System offers customers the flexibility to automate activities and processes across the complete lifecycle of a case. Cases are created when fraud officers checking an alert within ACI Proactive Risk Manager identify fraud. The solution is a basic framework that defines processes for researching and resolving cases, including investigation resources, timeframes, escalation paths and alerts. The Automated Case Management System also acts as a central repository for case histories and resource activities to provide organizations with centralized auditing capabilities. • ACI Automated Case Management System for Anti-Money Laundering. The ACI Automated Case Management System for Anti-Money Laundering reduces the need for internal resources to spend needless time on compliance requirements. The Automated Case Management System allows customers to automate the escalation and notification processing of potential non-compliance exposure. Since all activities and tasks are managed under the system from a process standpoint, it also provides the centralized auditing and reporting needs required for regulatory proof of compliance. 7 Table of Contents Operate Products The Operate products provide specific technology extensions to augment the business services provided in the Initiate, Manage and Secure solutions. • ACI Communication Services (formerly known as ICE) is a set of products that enable applications to support legacy protocols, such as SNA and X.25, running over TCP/IP networks. It also supports hybrid networking environments such as IBM’s HPR/IP. This set of products run on HP NonStop, IBM System z and Unix platforms. • ACI Communication Services — Network Express provides network communications and middleware capabilities to support legacy systems integration and connectivity. • ACI Enterprise Security Services (formerly known as SafeTGate) is a suite of security solutions that secure access to systems and resources. All of these products run on the HP NonStop platform and were designed to take advantage of HP NonStop fundamentals. • ACI Web Access Services (formerly known as Webgate) allows HP NonStop users to securely expose existing applications to peer systems as well as PC clients and web browsers. Web Access Services supports new GUI client development, standard 6530 and 3270E terminal emulation or automated data stream transformation to give users a range of options for integrating NonStop services across the enterprise. • ACI Monitoring and Management (formerly known as ENGUARD) is a proactive monitoring, alarm and dispatching software tool. • ACI DataWise is a transactional data management solution that allows high volumes of transactional data to be moved between Stratus® VOS systems, across different platforms and between heterogeneous databases. • ACI Simulation Services for Enterprise Testing (ASSET) is a simulation and testing tool that allows companies involved in electronic payments to simulate devices and transactions, and perform application testing. Partnerships and Industry Participation We have two major types of third party partners: alliances, where we work closely with industry leaders who drive key industry trends and mandates, and product partners, where we market or embed the products of other software companies. We have strategic alliances with HP, IBM and Oracle whose hardware and software are utilized by ACI’s products. These partnerships allow us to understand developments in their technology and to utilize their expertise in topics like performance testing. In addition, we have a range of alliances that help us add value to our solutions, stay abreast of current market conditions and industry developments such as standards. Alliance organizations include Diebold, NCR, Wincor-Nixdorf, VISA, MasterCard and S.W.I.F.T. In addition ACI has membership in, and participates in the relevant committees, of a number standard setting bodies, such as the International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”), Interactive Financial eXchange Forum (“IFX”), UK Cards Association and the PCI Security Standards Council. Product partner relationships extend our product portfolio, improve our ability to get our solutions to market and enhance our ability to deliver market-leading solutions. We share revenues with these product partners based on relative responsibilities for the customer account. The agreements with product partners generally grant us the right to embed their technology within our applications, distribute, or represent their products on a worldwide basis and have a term of several years. The following is a list of currently active product partners: • Oracle (for its GoldenGate product) • Ascert • ACE Software Solutions • Bell ID 8 Table of Contents • FairCom Corporation • Paragon Application Systems • Financial Software and Services • IBM • CB.Net • RDM Corporation • Intuit • Vasco Data Security • Metatomix • Accuity • RSA, The Security Division of EMC Corporation • iPay Technologies • Parsam Technologies Services We offer our customers a wide range of professional services, including analysis, design, development, implementation, integration and training. We have service professionals within each of our three geographic regions who generally perform the majority of the work associated with installing and integrating our software products, rather than relying on third-party systems integrators. We offer the following types of services for our customers: • Implementation Services. We utilize a standard methodology to deliver customer project implementations across all products lines. Within the process, we provide customers with a variety of services, including on-site solution scoping reviews, project planning, training, site preparation, installation, product configuration, product customization, testing and go-live support, and project management throughout the project life cycle. Implementation services are offered for a fee that varies based on the level and quantity of included services. • Technical Services. The majority of our technical services are provided to customers who have licensed one or more of our software products. Services offered include programming and programming support, day-to-day systems operations, network operations, help desk staffing, quality assurance testing, problem resolution, system design, and performance planning and review. Technical services are typically priced on a weekly basis according to the level of technical expertise required and the duration of the project. • Facilities Management. We offer facilities management services whereby we operate a customer’s electronic payments system for multi-year periods. Pricing and payment terms for facilities management services vary on a case-by-case basis giving consideration to the complexity of the facility or system to be managed, the level and quantity of technical services required, and other factors relevant to the facilities management agreement. • ACI On Demand. We offer a service whereby we host a customer’s system for them as opposed to the customer licensing and installing the system on their own site. We offer several of our solutions in this manner, including our retail and wholesale payment engines, risk management and online banking products. Each customer gets a unique image of the system that can be tailored to meet their needs. The product is generally located on facilities and hardware that we provide. Pricing and payment terms depend on which solutions the customer requires and their transaction volumes. Generally, customers are required to commit to a minimum contract of three to five years. 9 Table of Contents Customer Support We provide our customers with product support that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. If requested by a customer, the product support group can remotely access that customer’s systems on a real-time basis. This allows the product support groups to help diagnose and correct problems to enhance the continuous availability of a customer’s business-critical systems. We offer our customers both a general maintenance plan and an extended service option. • General Maintenance. After software installation and project completion, we provide maintenance services to customers for a monthly fee. Maintenance services include: • 24-hour hotline for problem resolution • Customer account management support • Vendor-required mandates and updates • Product documentation • Hardware operating system compatibility • User group membership • Enhanced Support Program. Under the extended service option, referred to as the Enhanced Support Program, each customer is assigned an experienced technician to work with its system. The technician typically performs functions such as: • Install and test software fixes • Retrofit custom software modifications (“CSMs”) into new software releases • Answer questions and resolve problems related to CSM code • Maintain a detailed CSM history • Monitor customer problems on HELP24 hotline database on a priority basis • Supply on-site support, available upon demand • Perform an annual system review We provide new releases of our products on a periodic basis. New releases of our products, which often contain product enhancements, are typically provided at no additional fee for customers under maintenance agreements. Agreements with our customers permit us to charge for substantial product enhancements that are not provided as part of the maintenance agreement. Competition The electronic payments market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Competitive factors affecting the market for our products and services include product features, price, availability of customer support, ease of implementation, product and company reputation, and a commitment to continued investment in research and development. Our competitors vary by product line, geography and market segment. Generally, our most significant competition comes from in-house information technology departments of existing and potential customers, as well as third-party electronic payments processors (some of whom are our customers). Many of these companies are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Key competitors by product domain include the following: Initiate Domain Principal competitors for the Initiate product set are S1 Corporation, Fundtech Ltd, Fiserv, Inc., Intuit Corporation, and Clear2Pay. 10 Table of Contents Manage Domain The third-party software competitors for the products in the retail banking aspect of the manage domain are S1 Corporation, OpenWay, Tieto Enator, TSYS and CSC as well as small, regionally-focused companies such as Aleric Technology Inc., Distra Pty. Ltd., and Opus Software Solutions Private Limited. Primary electronic payment processing competitors in this area include global entities such as First Data Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., Total System Services (TSYS), Atos Origin S.A., Euronet Worldwide, Inc., Visa and MasterCard, as well as regional or country-specific processors. In the wholesale banking side of the manage domain, the principal competitors are Fundtech, Tieto, Clear2Pay, Dovetail, Bottomline Technologies and a number of core banking processors. Secure Domain Principal competitors for the products in the secure domain are Fair Isaac Corporation, Norkom Technologies, Actimize, Inc., SAS Institute, Inc., Fiserv, Inc., and Fortent Inc., as well as dozens of smaller companies focused on niches of this segment such as anti-money laundering. Operate Domain The principal competitor for the operate domain products are HP, IBM and Oracle, as well as dozens of small, niche-focused competitors. As markets continue to evolve in the electronic payments, risk management and smartcard sectors, we may encounter new competitors for our products and services. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase and banks face price competition, third-party processors may become stronger competition in our efforts to market our solutions to smaller financial institutions. In the larger financial institution market, we believe that third-party processors may be less competitive since large institutions attempt to differentiate their electronic payment product offerings from their competition, and are more likely to develop or continue to support their own internally-developed solutions or use third-party software packages such as those offered by us. Research and Development Our product development efforts focus on new products and improved versions of existing products. We facilitate user group meetings. The user groups are generally organized geographically or by product lines. The groups help us determine our product strategy, development plans and aspects of customer support. We believe that the timely development of new applications and enhancements is essential to maintain our competitive position in the market. In developing new products, we work closely with our customers and industry leaders to determine requirements. We work with device manufacturers, such as Diebold, NCR and Wincor-Nixdorf, to ensure compatibility with the latest ATM technology. We work with interchange vendors, such as MasterCard and VISA, to ensure compliance with new regulations or processing mandates. We work with computer hardware and software manufacturers, such as HP, IBM, Microsoft Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Inc. and Stratus Technologies, Inc. to ensure compatibility with new operating system releases and generations of hardware. Customers often provide additional information on requirements and serve as beta-test partners. Our total research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the three month period ended December 31, 2007, and the year ended September 30, 2007 were $77.5 million, $75.9 million, $22.9 million, and $79.0 million, or 19.1%, 18.2%, 22.7%, and 21.6%, of total revenues, respectively. Customers We provide software products and services to customers in a range of industries worldwide, with financial institutions, retailers and e-payment processors comprising our largest industry segments. As of December 31, 2009, our customers include more than 100 of the 500 largest banks in the world, as measured by asset size, 7 of the top 12 retailers in the United States, as measured by revenue, and nearly 100 retailers worldwide. As of 11 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, we had 749 customers in 88 countries on six continents. Of this total, 383 are in the Americas reportable segment, 235 are in the EMEA reportable segment and 131 are in the Asia/Pacific reportable segment. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the three-month period ended December 31, 2007, or the year ended September 30, 2007. Selling and Marketing Our primary method of distribution is direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions or specific products. In addition, we use distributors and sales agents to supplement our direct sales force in countries where business practices or customs make it appropriate, or where it is more economical to do so. We generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, direct marketing programs, customers and prospects, or through referrals. Key international distributors and sales agents for us during the year ended December 31, 2009 included: • PTESA (Columbia) • PTESAVEN (Venezuela) • North Data (Uruguay) • Hewlett Packard Peru (Peru) • P.T. Abhimata Persada (Indonesia) • Financial Software and Systems (India) • Korea Computer & Systems (Korea) • DataOne Asia Co (Thailand) • Optimisa (Chile) • Simba Technology (Kenya) • Systems Builder (Saudi Arabia) • Syscom Computer Engineering (Taiwan) • Syscom Computer (Shenzhen) (China) We distribute the products of other vendors as complements to our existing product lines. We are typically responsible for the sales and marketing of the vendor’s products, and agreements with these vendors generally provide for revenue sharing based on relative responsibilities. In addition to our principal sales office in Omaha, we also have sales offices located outside the United States in Athens, Bahrain, Beijing, Buenos Aires, Dubai Internet City, Gouda, Kuala Lumpur, Johannesburg, Madrid, Manila, Melbourne, Mexico City, Milan, Moscow, Mumbai, Naples, Paris, Riyadh, Sao Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Sulzbach, Sydney, Tokyo, Toronto, and Watford. Proprietary Rights and Licenses We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, license agreements, contractual provisions and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We distribute our software products under software license agreements that typically grant customers nonexclusive licenses to use our products. Use of our software products is usually restricted to designated computers, specified locations and/or specified capacity, and is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our software products. We also seek to protect the source code of our software as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of our software products and technology will not occur. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. However, we typically are not involved in the development process used by these third parties. Our rights to those 12 Table of Contents third-party products and the associated intellectual property rights are limited by the terms of the contractual agreement between us and the respective third-party. Although we believe that our owned and licensed intellectual property rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Further, there can be no assurance that intellectual property protection will be available for our products in all foreign countries. Like many companies in the electronic commerce and other high-tech industries, third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Third parties may also claim that the third-party’s intellectual property rights are being infringed by our customers’ use of a business process method which utilizes products in conjunction with other products, which could result in indemnification claims against us by our customers. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We could also be required to defend or indemnify our customers against such claims. A successful claim by a third-party of intellectual property infringement by us or one of our customers could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages or even stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to develop alternative non-infringing technology. Segment Information and Foreign Operations We derive a significant portion of our revenues from foreign operations. For detail of revenue by geographic region see Note 12, “Segment Information”, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of approximately 2,114 employees of whom 1,121 were in the Americas reportable segment, 610 were in the EMEA reportable segment and 383 were in the Asia/Pacific reportable segment. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are good. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on our website at www.aciworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information electronically with the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, Room 1580, NW, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant As of February 26, 2010, our executive officers, their ages and their positions were as follows. Name Age Position Philip G. Heasley 60 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Scott W. Behrens 38 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer J. Ronald Totaro 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Craig A. Maki 43 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Corporate Development Officer Dennis P. Byrnes 46 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary David N. Morem 52 Senior Vice President, Global Business Operations Charles H. Linberg 52 Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Mr. Heasley has been a director and our President and Chief Executive Officer since March 2005. Mr. Heasley has a comprehensive background in payment systems and financial services. From October 2003 to March 2005, Mr. Heasley served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PayPower LLC, an acquisition and consulting firm specializing in financial services and payment services. Mr. Heasley served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of First USA Bank from October 2000 to November 2003. Prior to joining First USA Bank, from 1987 until 2000, Mr. Heasley served in various capacities for U.S. Bancorp, including Executive Vice President, and President and Chief Operating Officer. Before joining U.S. Bancorp, Mr. Heasley spent 13 years at Citicorp, including three years as President and Chief Operating Officer of Diners Club, Inc. Mr. Heasley is also a director of Tier Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: TIER), a provider of electronic payment biller-direct solutions, and Lender Processing Services, Inc. (NYSE: LPS), a provider of mortgage processing services, settlement services, mortgage performance analytics and default solutions. Mr. Heasley also serves on the National Infrastructure Advisory Board. Mr. Behrens serves as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Behrens joined ACI in June 2007 as the Company’s Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Behrens was appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2008. Prior to joining ACI, Mr. Behrens served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at SITEL Corporation from January 2005 to June 2007. He also served as Vice President of Financial Reporting at SITEL Corporation from April 2003 to January 2005. From 1993 to 2003, Mr. Behrens was with Deloitte & Touche, LLP, including two years as a Senior Audit Manager. Mr. Behrens holds a Bachelor of Science (Honors) from the University of Nebraska — Lincoln. Mr. Totaro joined the Company in March 2008 and serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Totaro is responsible for strategic planning, sales operations and global products. Prior to joining ACI, he was Vice President and General Manager of global credit scoring solutions at Fair Isaac Corporation. Mr. Totaro was Vice President of Interactive Marketing and Media at AOL Time Warner from 2000 to 2002 and previously held management positions at Andersen Consulting LLP, GE Capital Corporation and American Express TRS Company. Mr. Totaro holds an undergraduate degree from the State University of New York and a Master of Business Administration from the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. Mr. Maki serves as Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Corporate Development Officer. Mr. Maki joined the Company in June 2006. Mr. Maki was appointed Treasurer in January 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Maki served as Senior Vice President for Stephens, Inc. from 1999 through 2006. From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Maki was a Director in the Corporate Finance group at Arthur Andersen and from 1991 to 1994, he was a Senior Consultant at Andersen Consulting. Mr. Maki graduated from the University of Wyoming and received his Master of Business Administration from the University of Denver. Mr. Byrnes serves as Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Byrnes joined the Company in June 2003. Prior to that Mr. Byrnes served as an attorney in Bank One Corporation’s technology group from 2002. From 1996 to 2002 Mr. Byrnes was an executive officer at Sterling Commerce, Inc., an electronic commerce software and services company, serving as that company’s general counsel from 2000. From 1991 to 1996 Mr. Byrnes was an attorney with Baker Hostetler, a national law firm with over 600 attorneys. Mr. Byrnes holds a JD (cum laude) from The Ohio State University College of Law, a Master of Business Administration from Xavier University and a Bachelor of Science in engineering (magna cum laude) from Case Western Reserve University. 14 Table of Contents Mr. Morem joined the Company in June 2005 and serves as Senior Vice President, Global Business Operations. Prior to his appointment as Senior Vice President, Global Business Operations in January 2008, Mr. Morem served as Chief Administrative Officer of the Company. Prior to joining ACI, Mr. Morem held executive positions at GE Home Loans, Bank One Card Services and U.S. Bank. Mr. Morem brings more than 25 years of experience in process management, finance, credit operations, credit policy and change management. Mr. Morem holds a B.A. degree from the University of Minnesota and a Master of Business Administration from the University of St. Thomas. Mr. Linberg serves as Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. In this capacity he is responsible for the architectural direction of ACI products including the formation of platform, middleware and integration strategies. A graduate of the University of Delaware, Mr. Linberg joined ACI in 1988 and has served in various technical management roles including Vice President of Payment Systems, Vice President of Architecture and Technology, Vice President of BASE24 Development and Vice President of Network Systems. Prior to joining ACI, Mr. Linberg was Vice President of Research and Development at XRT, Inc., where he led the development of XRT’s proprietary fault-tolerant LAN/WAN communications middleware, relational database and 4GL products. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Common Stock We operate in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. The global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current global economic conditions could reduce the demand for our products and services or otherwise adversely impact our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. The global financial crisis, declining real estate and retail markets, changes in bank credit quality in the United States or abroad, extreme capital and credit market volatility, higher unemployment and declining business and consumer confidence have precipitated a global recession. The global electronic payments industry and the banking and financial services industries depend heavily upon the overall levels of consumer, business and government spending. For the foreseeable future, we expect to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the banking and financial services industries. The current economic conditions could result in a decrease in consumers’ use of banking services and financial service providers and the implementation by banks and related financial service providers of cost reduction measures which could result in significant decreases in the demand for our products and services and adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, to the degree that the financial crisis and the volatility in the credit markets makes it more difficult for our customers to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet their operating needs or obtain financing, customers may be unable to timely meet their payment obligations to us and we may experience greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. Our current credit facility contains restrictions and other financial covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens; incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. Our credit facility also requires us to meet certain quarterly financial tests, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Our credit facility includes customary events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay principal or interest, breach of covenants or representations and warranties, cross-default to other indebtedness, judgment default and insolvency. If an event of default occurs under the credit facility, the lenders will be entitled to take various actions, including, but not limited to, demanding payment for all amounts outstanding. If adverse global economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to reduced 15 Table of Contents demand for our products and services and as a result, we could fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing credit facility, resulting in an event of default. If we are unable to cure the default or obtain a waiver, we will not be able to access our credit facility and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to access financing. While we intend to finance our operations and growth of our business with existing cash and cash flow from operations, if adverse global economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience a decrease in cash from operations attributable to reduced demand for our products and services and as a result, we may need to borrow additional amounts under our existing credit facility or we may require additional financing for our continued operation and growth. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and the impact of the current economic crisis on our operating results and financial conditions, the amount of available unused borrowings under our existing credit facility may be insufficient to meet our needs and/or our access to capital outside of our existing credit facility may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, if one or more of the financial institutions in our syndicate were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the committed facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. We cannot assure you that alternative financing on acceptable terms would be available to replace any defaulted commitments. Our announced restructuring and efficiency efforts as part of the implementation of our strategic plan may not achieve the expected efficiencies and cost savings which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. In August 2008 we announced the implementation of our strategic plan and our expectations related to certain cost take-outs during 2008 and 2009 to be achieved primarily through a reduction in the work force, reallocation of headcount to different geographies and consolidation of non-core products and facilities. While we expect our cost saving initiatives to result in significant cost savings throughout our organization, our estimated savings are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, and as a result we cannot assure you that we will realize these cost savings. The failure to achieve our estimated cost savings, or a significant delay in our achievement of the expected benefits, could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: • timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; • changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; • risks associated with litigation for wrongful termination; • new business initiatives and changes in product roadmaps and development efforts; • changes in employment levels and turnover rates; and • changes in product demand and the business environment. While we have and will continue to implement these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that we will realize the projected benefits of these and other cost saving plans. If we are unable to realize these anticipated cost reductions, our financial health may be adversely affected. Moreover, our continued implementation of cost saving plans may result in the continued diversion of management time and resources and the disruption of our operations, services to customers and performance. We may face risks related to recent restatements of our financial statements. Prior to filing the 2008 Annual Report, we determined that we needed to restate our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 to make adjustments related to the recognition of $1.9 million of revenue during that quarter for a software project in the Asia/Pacific reportable operating segment which should have been deferred until further project milestones were achieved. As a result, we also amended our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q/A for the periods ended June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 to report year-to-date data 16 Table of Contents reflecting the adjustments made in the restated consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. In addition, during fiscal 2007, we restated our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2005, and our consolidated statements of operations, our consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income and consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. In addition, we restated selected financial data for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002. Companies that restate their financial statements sometimes face litigation claims and/or SEC proceedings following such a restatement. We could face monetary judgments, penalties or other sanctions which could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. Consolidation in the financial services industry may adversely impact the number of customers and our revenues in the future. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at key financial services organizations have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is concentrated in the financial services industry, making us susceptible to a downturn in that industry. Consolidation activity among financial institutions has increased in recent years. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions could cause us to lose existing and potential customers for our products and services. For instance, consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity in turn decided to forego future use of our products, our revenues would decline. Most of our customers are in the banking and financial services industries which are subject to economic changes that could reduce the demand for our products and services. For the foreseeable future, we expect to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the banking and financial services industries. Our financial condition depends on the health of the general economy as well as the software sector and financial services industry as our revenue and profits are driven by demand for our products and services. Changes in economic conditions and unforeseen events like recession, the current financial and mortgage crisis, inflation or changes in bank credit quality in the United States or abroad, could occur and reduce consumers’ use of banking services and financial service providers. Any event of this kind, or implementation for any reason by banks or related financial service providers of cost reduction measures, could result in significant decreases in the demand for our products and services and adversely affect our operating results. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases. A lessening demand in either the overall economy, the software sector or the financial services industry could result in reduced capital spending by our customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition which could lead to a material decrease in our future revenues and earnings. Management’s backlog estimate may not be accurate and may not generate the predicted revenues. Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates require substantial judgment and are based on a number of assumptions, including management’s current assessment of customer and third party contracts that exist as of the date the estimates are made, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals, to the extent that we believe that recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. A number of factors could result in actual revenues being less than the amounts reflected in backlog. Our customers or third party partners may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions within their industries or geographic locations, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts. Actual renewal rates and amounts may differ from historical experiences used to estimate backlog amounts. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that contracts included in backlog will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within a 12-month 17 Table of Contents or 60-month period. Additionally, because backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not subject to the same level of internal review or controls as a generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) financial measure. Our revenue and earnings are highly cyclical and our quarterly results fluctuate significantly. Our revenue and earnings are highly cyclical causing significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. Revenue and operating results are usually strongest during the third and fourth fiscal quarters ending September 30 and December 31 primarily due to the sales and budgetary cycles of our customers. We experience lower revenues, and possible operating losses, in the first and second quarters ending March 31 and June 30. Our financial results may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, including changes in product sales mix that affect average selling prices; and the timing of customer renewals (any of which may impact the pattern of revenue recognition). We may face exposure to unknown tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. We are subject to income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. In addition, we expect to continue to benefit from implemented tax-saving strategies. We believe that these tax-saving strategies comply with applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law and successfully challenge any of our tax positions, our financial condition and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our tax positions in our United States federal income tax returns filed for the 2005 and 2006 tax years are the subject of an ongoing examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intend to vigorously defend our positions. This examination could result in the IRS issuing proposed adjustments that could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. One of our foreign subsidiaries is the subject of a tax examination by the local taxing authorities. Other foreign subsidiaries could face challenges from various foreign tax authorities. It is not certain that the local authorities will accept our tax positions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intend to vigorously defend our positions. However, differing positions on certain issues could be upheld by foreign tax authorities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile. Prices on the global financial markets for equity securities declined precipitously since September 2008. No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and past performance may not accurately predict future performance. Any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in our stock price. Our stock price may also be volatile, in part, due to external factors such as announcements by third parties or competitors, inherent volatility in the technology sector, and changing market conditions in the software industry. There are a number of risks associated with our international operations, including, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, that could have a material impact on our operations and financial condition. We have historically derived a majority of our revenues from international operations and anticipate continuing to do so. As a result, we are subject to risks of conducting international operations. One of the principal risks associated with international operations is potentially adverse movements of foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposures resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may change over time as our business evolves and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have not entered into any derivative instruments or hedging contracts to reduce exposure to adverse foreign currency changes. 18 Table of Contents Other potential risks include difficulties associated with staffing and management, reliance on independent distributors, longer payment cycles, potentially unfavorable changes to foreign tax rules, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, variability of foreign economic conditions, governmental currency controls, difficulties in enforcing our contracts in foreign jurisdictions, and general economic and political conditions in the countries where we sell our products and services. Some of our products may contain encrypted technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. Changes in United States and other applicable export laws and regulations restricting the export of software or encryption technology could result in delays or reductions in our shipments of products internationally. The software market is a rapidly changing and highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The software market is characterized by rapid change, evolving technologies and industry standards and intense competition. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share or customer base. We face intense competition in our business and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. We have many competitors that are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, have well-established relationships with our current or potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to the market with new products and services. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. Increased competition in our markets could lead to price reductions, reduced profits, or loss of market share. The current global economic conditions could also result in increased price competition for our products and services. To compete successfully, we need to maintain a successful research and development effort. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology and industry standards, bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, or accurately predict future changes in our customers’ needs and our competitors develop new technologies or products, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. We are engaged in offshore software development activities, which may not be successful and which may put our intellectual property at risk. As part of our globalization strategy and to optimize available research and development resources, in fiscal 2006 we established a new subsidiary in Ireland to serve as the focal point for certain international product development and commercialization efforts. This subsidiary oversees remote software development operations in Romania and elsewhere, as well as manages certain of our intellectual property rights. While our experience to date with our offshore development centers has been positive, there is no assurance that this will continue. Specifically, there are a number of risks associated with this activity, including but not limited to the following: • communications and information flow may be less efficient and accurate as a consequence of the time, distance and language differences between our primary development organization and the foreign based activities, resulting in delays in development or errors in the software developed; • in addition to the risk of misappropriation of intellectual property from departing personnel, there is a general risk of the potential for misappropriation of our intellectual property that might not be readily discoverable; • the quality of the development efforts undertaken offshore may not meet our requirements because of language, cultural and experiential differences, resulting in potential product errors and/or delays; • potential disruption from the involvement of the United States in political and military conflicts around the world; and • currency exchange rates could fluctuate and adversely impact the cost advantages intended from maintaining these facilities. 19 Table of Contents One of our most strategic products, BASE24-eps, could prove to be unsuccessful in the market. Our BASE24-eps product is strategic for us, in that it is designated to help us win new accounts, replace legacy payments systems on multiple hardware platforms and help us transition our existing customers to a new, open-systems product architecture. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to generate adequate sales of BASE24-eps, if market acceptance of BASE24-eps is delayed, or if we are unable to successfully deploy BASE24-eps in production environments. Our announcement of the maturity of certain legacy retail payment products may result in decreased customer investment in our products and our strategy to migrate customers to our next generation products may be unsuccessful which may adversely impact our business and financial condition, including the timing of revenue recognition associated with the legacy retail payment products. Our announcement related to the maturity of certain retail payment engines may result in customer decisions not to purchase or otherwise invest in these engines, related products and/or services. Alternatively, the maturity of these products may result in delayed customer purchase decisions or the renegotiation of contract terms based upon scheduled maturity activities. In addition, our strategy related to migrating customers to our next generation products may be unsuccessful. Reduced investments in our products, deferral or delay in purchase commitments by our customers or our failure to successfully manage our migration strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. Our announcement of the maturity of certain legacy retail payment products, and customer migrations to our next generation products, may result in ratable or deferred recognition of certain revenue associated with the legacy retail payment products. As a result of the maturity announcement, certain up-front fees associated with the legacy payment engines, including initial license fees, may become subject to ratable revenue recognition over time rather than up front at the time of contract. This will result in a delay in the recognition of these up-front fees. Additionally, customers may negotiate terms associated with their migration to Base24-eps which may cause the recognition of revenue associated with the customer’s legacy payment engine to be deferred pending the completion of the migration. Our future profitability depends on demand for our products; lower demand in the future could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Historically, a majority of our total revenues resulted from licensing our BASE24 product line and providing related services and maintenance. Any reduction in demand for, or increase in competition with respect to, the BASE24 product line could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from licensing of software products that operate on HP NonStop servers. Any reduction in demand for HP NonStop servers, or any change in strategy by HP related to support of its NonStop servers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. Failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or obtain such renewals on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of customer contracts could negatively impact our business. Our contracts with our customers generally run for a period of five years. At the end of the contract term, customers have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. Failure to achieve high renewal rates on commercially favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents The delay or cancellation of a customer project, or inaccurate project completion estimates, may adversely affect our operating results and financial performance. Any unanticipated delays in a customer project, changes in customer requirements or priorities during the project implementation period, or a customer’s decision to cancel a project, may adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. In addition, during the project implementation period, we perform ongoing estimates of the progress being made on complex and difficult projects and documenting this progress is subject to potential inaccuracies. Changes in project completion estimates are heavily dependent on the accuracy of our initial project completion estimates and our ability to evaluate project profits and losses. Any inaccuracies or changes in estimates resulting from changes in customer requirements, delays or inaccurate initial project completion estimates may result in increased project costs and adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. If we experience business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems, the availability of our products and services could be interrupted which could adversely effect our reputation, business and financial condition. Our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our data centers, information technology and communication systems, and those of our external service providers. As we continue to grow our On Demand business, our dependency on the continuing operation and availability of these systems increases. Our systems and data centers, and those of our external service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures and we have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption, such steps may not be sufficient to prevent an interruption of services and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. An operational failure or outage in any of these systems, or damage to or destruction of these systems, which causes disruptions in our services, could result in loss of customers, damage to customer relationships, reduced revenues and profits, refunds of customer charges and damage to our brand and reputation and may require us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment and recover data loss caused by the interruption. Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully perform under the terms of our alliance with IBM or our customers are not receptive to the alliance, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. In December 2007, we entered into a Master Alliance Agreement and certain other related agreements with IBM to create a strategic alliance between us and IBM (the “Alliance”). Pursuant to the Alliance Agreement, we agreed to enable our payment application software products on certain of IBM’s hardware platforms, including the IBM System z Platform and we agreed to enter into collective sales and marketing efforts with IBM to offer a combination of ACI and IBM solutions. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully enable our products on IBM’s hardware platforms or that our customers and potential customers will be receptive to this Alliance or our new sales and marketing strategy. If we are unable to enable our software products on the IBM hardware platforms or the market does not react positively to the Alliance, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our outsourcing agreement with IBM may not achieve the level of savings that we anticipate and many associated changes in systems and personnel are being made, increasing operational and control risk during transition, which may have an impact on the business and its financial condition. Our seven-year outsourcing agreement with IBM is estimated to deliver operating cost savings for us of $25 million to $30 million over the course of the contract and reduce our capital expenditures. The estimated cost 21 Table of Contents savings and capital expenditure reductions are dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings and capital expenditure reductions to be substantially less than expected. In addition, as a part of the outsourcing agreement, many functions have been transitioned to IBM and many new personnel are assuming responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on us and our financial condition. Additionally, new information technology systems and process changes are also being put into place increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an adverse impact on us and our financial condition. Our software products may contain undetected errors or other defects, which could damage our reputation with customers, decrease profitability, and expose us to liability. Our software products are complex. Software typically contains bugs or errors that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software products. Our software products may contain undetected errors or flaws when first introduced or as new versions are released. These undetected errors may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and a corresponding loss of sales or revenues. Customers depend upon our products for mission-critical applications, and these errors may hurt our reputation with customers. In addition, software product errors or failures could subject us to product liability, as well as performance and warranty claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting delivery of services and damaging our reputation. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store, and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, or well-publicized security breaches, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our networks and confidential information. Computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers. If our products and services fail to comply with government regulations and industry standards to which our customers are subject, it could result in a loss of customers and decreased revenue. Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our products and services must comply. For example, our products are affected by VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we may be bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we are subject to these limitations and we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could 22 Table of Contents be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and technology and may be subject to increasing litigation over our intellectual property rights. To protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of our products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and trade secret and copyright laws. Despite such efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate products, or design around any rights we believe to be proprietary. This may be particularly true in countries other than the United States because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as certain laws of the United States. Any failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the electronic commerce field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is not economical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We anticipate that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions could increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that our present and future products infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may also claim, and we are aware that at least two parties have claimed on several occasions, that our customers’ use of a business process method which utilizes our products in conjunction with other products infringe on the third-party’s intellectual property rights. These third-party claims could lead to indemnification claims against us by our customers. Claims against our customers related to our products, whether or not meritorious, could harm our reputation and reduce demand for our products. Where indemnification claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage the customer relationship. A successful claim by a third-party of intellectual property infringement by us or one of our customers could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages, or stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to develop alternative non-infringing technology. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased for third-party products distributed by us or as a result of acquisitions since we have a lower level of visibility, if any, into the development process with respect to such third-party products and acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Risks associated with future acquisitions and investments could materially adversely affect our business. We may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. During the fiscal year 2009, we acquired certain assets from Essentis. During fiscal 2007, we acquired Visual Web and Stratasoft. Any acquisition or investment, including the acquisitions of the Essentis assets, Visual Web and Stratasoft, is subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. 23 Table of Contents Further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. Our failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, our expectations related to the benefits related to the Essentis, Visual Web and Stratasoft acquisitions, prior acquisitions or any other future acquisition or investment could be inaccurate. We may become involved in litigation that could materially adversely affect our business financial condition and/or results of operations. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Failure to successfully defend against these claims could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 