Risk Factors Relating to the Business of our Company The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. In addition to the following risk factors, we refer you to those risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in various of our publicly reported documents. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial could also impair our business operations. Keep these risk factors in mind when you read “forward-looking” statements elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These are statements that relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. Generally, the words “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those associated with the forward-looking statements. We have significant capital requirements and need additional financing within the first portion of fiscal year 2005. Historically, our cash requirements have exceeded our cash flow from operations. This has been due to costs associated with developing and opening restaurants as well as the operating performance of many of our restaurants. As of January 2, 2005, our company had a working capital deficiency of $4,639,000 and a cash balance of $2,350,000. In 2004, we incurred a net loss of $1,344,000 and we invested in property and equipment of $1,292,000. In 2003, we incurred a net loss of $1,034,000 and we invested $755,000 in property and equipment. In addition, we have only recently experienced some success in reversing the long-term trends in declining sales and customer traffic. There are no assurances that these recent reversals will continue and that the implementation of our strategies w ill result in sales and customer traffic gains which are required to meet our contemplated cash flow requirements. 6 In December 2004, we obtained net funding of $2,010,000 through the issuance of convertible debentures totaling $2,375,000. The convertible debentures, which mature in April 2005, are expected to be repaid, if not converted into stock, from the proceeds of a contemplated next round of financing anticipated to occur during the first half of 2005. In March 2005, our investors provided us with a $1,600,000 revolving line of credit, which matures on the earlier of March 31, 2006 or the closing of a financing providing us not less than $1,600,000 of net proceeds. We expect to use the line of credit to help repay the debentures if a cash repayment is required, to the extent we have not then consummated the contemplated next round of financing. We cannot be assured that third party financing will be available to us when we need it or available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain a contemplated next round of financing or other financing when we need it, this could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Conversely, if we raise additional capital, our existing stockholders could be substantially diluted. We may be unable to repay certain of our debts when they mature. As noted, convertible debentures totaling $2,375,000 mature in April 2005. In addition, in August 2004, we extended the maturity dates on notes totaling $2,000,000 from January 31, 2005 to January 31, 2007, at which time payment will be due in full, along with deferred interest through the due date of $535,000. The $2,000,000 principal amount notes are held by entities owned by or associated with various of our directors and largest shareholders. In March 2005, warrants to purchase 1,000,000 shares of common stock, which were issued on August 4, 2004 pursuant to the extension of the $2,000,000 related-party financing, were exercised at $0.50 per share by certain of our investors. The proceeds of $500,000 were used to pay down the principal amount of the notes to these investors. Additionally, in March 2005, the $1,000,000 n ote held by Frederick R. Adler was modified to allow Shells to defer entirely the monthly interest payment on $500,000 of principal amount of the note until the maturity date of January 31, 2007, resulting in the deferral of $72,000 of cash payments until the maturity date. We anticipate that prior to maturity, funds will be available to pay off the remainder of this debt or alternative outside financing will be available to replace these obligations. There are no assurances that adequate financing options will be available to our company when necessary. We have two promissory notes outstanding through Colonial Bank, for the financing of two restaurant locations, Melbourne and Winter Haven. As of January 2, 2005, we owed collectively $1,099,000 on the principal balances of these notes. We are required to meet a financial covenant relating to debt coverage. We were in compliance in meeting this loan covenant as of January 2, 2005. However, in the past, we were not in compliance with meeting the loan covenant for which a covenant waiver was provided by the bank. The two bank notes and the remaining $1,500,000 principal amount of the notes held by entities owned or associated with insiders are secured by various of our assets. Our failure to pay these notes as they mature will allow the holders of these notes to seize and sell various of our assets to satisfy amounts owed. Our business plan is contingent on additional future financing. Integral to our business plan and subject to our ability to secure a contemplated next round of financing, we presently have plans to continue our renovation and remodeling of existing restaurants in 2005. In addition, we will continue to explore restaurant locations for new growth and relocations. If we do not secure the contemplated next round of financing and achieve our operating cash flow requirements, our plans to renovate and remodel will be adversely affected. History of losses. We have experienced operating and net losses during the majority of our recent prior years. In 2004, we had losses of $1,344,000. In 2003, we had losses of $1,034,000. Excluding non-recurring items, our losses were $734,000 and $765,000 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Substantial dilution to our stockholders is possible. During January 2002, we completed a $2,000,000 financing transaction pursuant to which, among other things, we issued warrants to purchase 8,908,030 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $0.16 per share. As of January 31, 2005, these warrants were exercised, some in accordance with a cashless exercise provision; whereby 8,462,630 shares of common stock were issued to the respective warrant holders. In August 2004, we agreed with the holders of the $2,000,000 of promissory notes to an extension of the term of the notes from their original expiration date of January 31, 2005 to January 31, 2007. In connection with this extension, we issued warrants to purchase 2,000,000 shares of common stock. In March 2005, we issued 1,000,000 shares of common stock upon the exercise of one-half of these warrants. 7 In December 2004, we completed a $2,375,000 private placement of convertible debentures. The debentures mature on the earliest to occur of certain events, but in any event, not later than April 5, 2005. In conjunction with this private placement, we issued warrants to purchase 1,971,250 shares of common stock to the debenture holders and the placement agent. Until the maturity of these debentures, the placement agent has the right to place up to an additional $125,000 aggregate principal amount of debentures, which in turn would cause us to issue up to 62,500 additional warrants. As of February 7, 2005, there were 13,628,417 shares of common stock outstanding, and warrants, options or other convertible securities outstanding to purchase an additional 5,291,125 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $0.58 per share. By written consent, our board of directors and the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock have authorized an amendment to our certificate of incorporation that will increase the total number of authorized shares of our common stock from 20,000,000 shares to 40,000,000 shares. We are contemplating pursuing a significant round of additional equity financing which is expected to be used, among other things, for additional remodels and potential new locations or relocations for existing restaurants. We anticipate using the additional authorized shares of common stock, among other things, to finance the repayment of the debentures to the extent they are not converted in to common stock and in other future capital raising transactions. Control by Management and Certain Individuals. Frederick R. Adler, and Bruce Galloway, both significant shareholders, together with members of our board of directors and executive management team, are beneficial owners of record, in the aggregate, of approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock as of February 7, 2005. In addition, as part of our $2,000,000 financing transaction in January 2002, we entered into an Investor Rights Agreement with the investor groups and certain other stockholders. Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, our board of directors is to consist of seven members and the investor groups are entitled to nominate six individuals to serve on our board. These rights are presently held by three unrelated investor groups consisting of Frederick R. Adler (3 nominees), Trinad Capital, LP and Galloway Capital Management, LLC (collectively, 3 nominees). The investor groups, among o thers, have agreed to vote their respective shares of our common stock for the election to our board of the slated nominees. As a result, these persons, acting together, currently are able to control the business and affairs of our company, including the election of our directors and decisions regarding any proposed dissolution, merger or sale of our assets. We depend on key personnel. Our success is largely dependent upon our executive management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one of our executives or other key personnel could materially adversely affect us. Our success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management restaurant industry personnel. Operating results may require the closure of additional restaurants. If we experience prolonged periods of unfavorable operating results at any existing restaurants, view the prospects for a restaurant to be less than satisfactory or elect not to renew a restaurant lease due to its operating results, we may elect to close or relocate restaurants. The lack of success or closing of any of our restaurants could have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. We closed 16 restaurants during 2001, of which 14 were located in the Midwest and two were located in Florida. We closed one restaurant in 2002 and three restaurants in 2004. We are continuing to monitor the operations and financial performance with respect to certain of our other existing restaurants. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally because of our geographic concentration. We experience significant fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter operating results because of factors including: Ÿ the seasonal nature of our business; and Ÿ weather conditions in Florida, which may be severe from time-to-time. Our restaurants are all located in Florida and can be affected by the health of Florida’s economy in general, and of the tourism industry in particular, which can further be affected by anticipated world events, as well as economic trends. In addition, while the majority of our restaurants are located primarily in residential areas in Florida, many of our restaurants are located in seasonal tourist areas. Our restaurant sales generally increase from January through April and June through August, the peaks of the Florida tourism season, and generally decrease from September through mid-December. In addition, because of 8 our present geographic concentration, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants or adverse weather conditions could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our operating results than if our restaurants were more geographically dispersed. Adverse weather conditions or a decline in tourism in Florida, or in general economic conditions, which would likely affect the Florida economy or tourism industry, particularly during the time of peak sales, could materially adversely affect our operations and prospects. During the third and fourth quarters of 2004, we incurred substantial business and property losses as a result of four hurricanes that struck Florida. Because of the seasonality of our business, our results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full year. The supply and quality of our seafood may fluctuate. In recent years, the availability of certain types of seafood has fluctuated. This has resulted in a corresponding fluctuation in prices. We maintain short-term contracts with several of our suppliers. In addition, we purchase products through Performance Food Group in the ordinary course of business. Performance Food Group distributes and warehouses the majority of our seafood supply and procures, distributes and stores other supplies for us. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers and Performance Food Group are satisfactory and that alternative sources are readily available. However, the loss of some suppliers or of our relationship with Performance Food Group could materially adversely affect us. Some species of seafood have become subject to adverse publicity because of claims of contamination by lead, mercury or other chemicals that may exist in the ocean or in an aquaculture environment. This can adversely affect both market demand and supply for these food products. Customer demand may also be negatively impacted by reports of medical or other risks resulting from eating seafood. We maintain a continuous inspection program for our seafood purchases. However, we cannot assure you that seafood contamination or consumer perception of inadequate seafood quality, in the industry in general or as to us specifically, will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our failure to obtain adequate supplies of seafood or problems or difficulties resulting from the contamination of seafood, in general, or at any of our restaurants in particular, will have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability . Our expenses for food and other costs fluctuate. Our profitability depends on our ability to anticipate and to react to increases in food, labor, employee benefits, and similar costs. We have limited control over these costs. Specifically, our dependence on frequent deliveries of seafood, produce, dairy and other products means we are at greater risk of shortages or interruptions in supply because of adverse weather or other conditions. This could adversely affect the availability and cost of these items. Also, substantial price increases imposed by our suppliers in the absence of alternative sources of supply in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on us. We have been able to anticipate and react to fluctuations in food costs by: Ÿ adjusting selected menu prices; Ÿ purchasing seafood directly from numerous suppliers; and Ÿ promoting alternative menu selections in response to price and availability of supply. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to anticipate and respond to supply and price fluctuations or that we will not be subject to significantly increased costs. A shortage of available seafood could cause our cost of sales to increase. Because of our value oriented pricing structure, this could materially adversely affect our operations and profitability. In addition, seafood suppliers and processors are subject to a program of inspection by the Food and Drug Administration. This program may increase our seafood costs because seafood suppliers’ and processors’ costs in complying with this program may increase. Our industry is highly competitive. The restaurant industry, particularly the full-service casual dining segment, is highly competitive. We compete in the areas of: Ÿ price; Ÿ service; Ÿ food quality, including taste, freshness, healthfulness and nutritional value; and Ÿ location. We have numerous well-established competitors, some of which dominate the industry. These competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Many of our 9 competitors have achieved significant brand name and product recognition. They also engage in extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter new markets or introduce new products. Our competitors include national, regional and local full-service casual dining chains, many of which specialize in or offer seafood products. We believe that the full-service casual dining segment is likely to attract a significant number of new entrants, some offering seafood products. We also expect to face competition from a broad range of other restaurants and food service establishments. These include full-service, quick-service and fast food restaurants, which specialize in a variety of menu offerings. In addition, the full-service restaurant industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new food products, which are accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In recent years, numerous companies in the full-service restaurant industry have introduced products, including seafood, intended to capitalize on growing consumer prefer­ence for food products that are, or are perceived to be, healthful, nutritious, and low in calories, carbohydrates or fat content. You can expect that we will be subject to increasing competition from companies whose products or marketing strategies address these consumer preferences. While we believe that we offer a broad variety of quality seafood products, we cannot assure you that: Ÿ consumers will be able to distinguish our products from competitive products; Ÿ substantially equivalent food products will not be introduced by our competitors; or Ÿ we will be able to compete successfully. Many factors affect our industry. We must respond to various factors affecting the restaurant industry including: Ÿ changes in con­sumer preferences, tastes and eating habits; Ÿ demographic trends and traffic patterns; Ÿ increases in food and labor costs; Ÿ inflation; and Ÿ national, regional and local economic conditions and the effect of world events, in general, and the tourism industry in particular: We face risks associated with government regulation. We are subject to extensive state and local government regulation by various agencies, including: Ÿ state and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environmental regulations; Ÿ various regulations relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; Ÿ regulations relating to sanitation, disposal of refuse and waste products; Ÿ regulations relating to public health; and Ÿ safety and fire standards. Our restaurants are inspected periodically by governmental agencies to ensure conformity with these regulations. The suspension of, or inability to renew a license at an existing restaurant would adversely affect our operations. A significant percentage of our revenue comes from sales of alcoholic beverages. State and local regulation of the sale of alcoholic beverages require us to obtain a license or permit for each of our restaurants. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain a license to serve liquor would materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, our failure or difficulty in obtaining required licensing or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent new restaurant openings. Restaurant operating costs are also affected by other government actions, which are beyond our control, including increases in: Ÿ the minimum hourly wage requirements; Ÿ workers compensation insurance rates; 10 Ÿ health care insurance costs; Ÿ other insurance costs, including general liability and property; and Ÿ unemployment and other taxes. In May 2005, the minimum wage rate in Florida will increase by $1.00 per hour. Tipped employees will also be receiving the $1.00 per hour wage increase under this new law. Each year thereafter, the minimum wage will increase according to the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics cost of living index. Such payroll cost increases will have a significantly adverse affect to our company. Menu price increases and other actions will be required to negate the effect of these wage increases. There can be no assurances that such measures expected to be taken by our company will be successful to adequately offset these additional payroll costs, or will be accepted without adverse reaction by our customers. Furthermore, the Americans with Disabilities Act may require us to make certain modifications to certain of our restaurants to meet specified access and use requirements. These and other initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. We may have liability for sales of alcoholic beverages. We are also subject to “dram-shop” statutes. These statutes generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. In certain states, statutes also provide that a vendor of alcoholic beverages may be held liable in a civil cause of action for injury or damage caused by or resulting from the intoxication of a minor under certain conditions. In addition, significant national attention is currently focused on the problem of drunk driving, which could result in the adoption of additional legislation. This could increase our potential liability for damage or injury caused by our customers. We may not be able to protect our service marks and proprietary information. We own two United States registrations for the service marks that we use, including the name “Shells.” We believe that our service marks have significant value and are essential to our ability to create demand for and awareness of our restaurants. We cannot assure you, however, that our service marks: Ÿ do not or will not violate the proprietary rights of others; Ÿ would be upheld if challenged; or Ÿ that we would not be prevented from using our service marks. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect us. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our service marks. We believe that we own all of our intellectual property and that the management and license agreements to which we are a party are enforceable. In the past, the enforceability of these management and license agreements has been questioned by certain of the licensees. Although we believe the agreements are enforceable, there can be no assurance that the agreements will not be challenged in the future, and, if challenged, that the agreements will be determined to be enforceable and the managed restaurants will be restricted from using the Shells service marks independent of us. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We employ various methods to protect our concepts and recipes. However, these methods may not completely protect us. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar knowledge or obtain access to our knowledge, concepts and recipes. Although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our executives and managers, we cannot assure you that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate. We maintain insurance, including insurance relating to personal injury, in amounts, which we currently consider adequate. Nevertheless, a partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful, could materially adversely affect us. Absence of Dividends. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our debt financings prohibit the payment of cash dividends and any future financing agreements may also prohibit the payment of cash dividends. 11 Provisions with Potential Anti-Takeover Effect. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock from time-to-time in one or more series. The board of directors is authorized to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to and imposed upon any wholly unissued series of preferred stock. The board is authorized to fix the number of shares of any series of preferred stock and the designation of any such series, without any vote or action by our stockholders. The board may authorize and issue preferred stock with voting, dividend, liquidation, conversion or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may d iscourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. On October 24, 2001, we issued 66,862 shares of Series A 5% Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(6) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in consideration for the cancellation of $669,000 of trade indebtedness by trade creditors of our company. As of January 2, 2005, we have 35,275 shares of preferred stock outstanding. We have no present intention to issue any additional shares of our preferred stock. However, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. On February 7, 2005, we obtained written consents from our board of directors and the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock from 20,000,000 shares to 40,000,000 shares. One of the effects of the amendment to our certificate of incorporation may be to enable the board to render more difficult or to discourage an attempt to obtain control of our company, since the issuance of these additional shares of common stock could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control or otherwise increase the cost of obtaining control of our company. 