ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Common Stock We operate in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. We may face risks related to the restatement of our financial statements. During fiscal 2007, we restated our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2005, and our consolidated statements of operations, our consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and comprehensive income and consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. In addition, we restated selected financial data for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002. Companies that restate their financial statements sometimes face litigation claims and/or SEC proceedings following such a restatement. We could face monetary judgments, penalties or other sanctions which could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. 15 As a result of the delay in filing this Annual Report, we required certain extensions in connection with the delivery of financial statements and related matters under financing arrangements for our bank debt. We may require additional extensions in the future, and failure to obtain the necessary extensions could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. We obtained certain extensions for the delivery of financial statements and related matters under our credit facilities as a result of the delay in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 (the "Annual Report"). The extensions established the extended deadline for the delivery of the annual financial statements contained in this Annual Report. Our current extensions under the credit facilities for our annual financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 expire January 31, 2008. We must deliver the financial statements for the transition period ended December 31, 2007 by no later than March 15, 2008. We may not be able to deliver our financial statements for the transition period ending December 31, 2007 within the required delivery period, and therefore, we may seek additional extensions under the credit facilities. Under our credit facilities, the lenders have the right to notify us if they believe we have breached a representation or covenant under the operative debt instruments and may declare an event of default. If one or more notices of default were to be given, we believe we would have various periods in which to cure such events of default or obtain necessary extensions. If we do not cure the events of default or obtain necessary extensions within the required time periods or certain extended time periods, the maturity of all or some of our debt could be accelerated and our ability to incur additional indebtedness could be restricted. Moreover, defaults under our bank loan agreements could trigger cross-default provisions under those and other debt arrangements. There can be no assurance that any additional extensions will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any extensions obtained, including the extensions we have already obtained, will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business operations. The failure to obtain such extensions or other waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. The delay in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC and any failure to satisfy other NASDAQ listing requirements could cause NASDAQ to commence suspension or delisting procedures with respect to our common stock. As a result of the delay in filing this Annual Report, we were in breach of certain continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ. We requested a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel in which we will request continued listing of our securities on The NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market for the period covering when we fell out of compliance with the continued listing requirements until we again regain compliance. We cannot assure that NASDAQ will grant our request or that NASDAQ will not impose additional conditions on our continued listing. If NASDAQ does not grant our request or if we fail to satisfy any additional conditions established by NASDAQ or any other NASDAQ listing requirements, including the timely filing of our Transition Report on Form 10-Q for the transition period ended December 31, 2007, if not waived by the NASDAQ, NASDAQ could commence suspension or delisting procedures with respect to our common stock. The commencement of any suspension or delisting procedures by the NASDAQ remains, at all times, at the discretion of the NASDAQ and would be publicly announced by the NASDAQ. The delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ may have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, limiting: •the liquidity of our common stock; •the market price of our common stock; •the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock; •the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; 16 •the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and •our ability to obtain equity financing for the continuation of our operations. Our performance could be materially adversely affected by a general economic downturn or lessening demand in the software sector and financial services industry. Purchases of technology products and services are subject to adverse economic conditions. Our financial condition depends on the health of the general economy as well as the software sector and financial services industry as our revenue and profits are driven by demand for our products and services. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases. A lessening demand in either the overall economy, the software sector or the financial services industry could result in reduced capital spending by our customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition which could lead to a material decrease in our future revenues and earnings. The software market is a rapidly changing and highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The software market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, intense competition and evolving industry standards. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share or customer base. We have many competitors that are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology and industry standards, bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, or accurately predict future changes in our customers' needs and our competitors develop new technologies or products, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. Increased competition in our markets could lead to price reductions, reduced profits, or loss of market share. Management's backlog estimate may not be accurate and may not generate the predicted revenues. Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates require substantial judgment and are based on a number of assumptions, including management's current assessment of customer and third party contracts that exist as of the date the estimates are made, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals, to the extent that we believe that recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. A number of factors could result in actual revenues being less than the amounts reflected in backlog. Our customers or third party partners may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions within their industries or geographic locations, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts. Actual renewal rates and amounts may differ from historical experiences used to estimate backlog amounts. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that contracts included in backlog will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within a 12-month or 60-month period. Additionally, because backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not subject to the same level of internal review or controls as a generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measure. 17 We may face exposure to unknown tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. We are subject to income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. In addition, we expect to continue to benefit from implemented tax-saving strategies. We believe that these tax-saving strategies comply with applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law and successfully challenge any of our tax positions, our financial condition and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our tax positions in our United States federal income tax returns filed for the 2005 and 2006 tax years are the subject of an ongoing examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intend to vigorously defend our positions. This examination could result in the IRS issuing proposed adjustments that could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Two of our foreign subsidiaries are the subject of tax examinations by the local taxing authorities. Other foreign subsidiaries could face challenges from various foreign tax authorities. It is not certain that the local authorities will accept our tax positions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intend to vigorously defend our positions. However, differing positions on certain issues could be upheld by foreign tax authorities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Consolidation in the financial services industry may adversely impact the number of customers and our revenues in the future. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at key financial services organizations have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is concentrated in the financial services industry, making us susceptible to a downturn in that industry. Consolidation activity among financial institutions has increased in recent years. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions could cause us to lose existing and potential customers for our products and services. For instance, consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity in turn decided to forego future use of our products, our revenues would decline. Our stock price may be volatile. No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and past performance may not accurately predict future performance. Any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in our stock price. Our stock price may also be volatile, in part, due to external factors such as announcements by third parties or competitors, inherent volatility in the technology sector, and changing market conditions in the software industry. There are a number of risks associated with our international operations. We have historically derived a majority of our revenues from international operations and anticipate continuing to do so. As a result, we are subject to risks of conducting international operations. One of the principal risks associated with international operations is potentially adverse movements of foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposures resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may change over time as our business evolves and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have not entered into any derivative instruments or hedging contracts to reduce exposure to adverse foreign currency changes. Other potential risks include 18 difficulties associated with staffing and management, reliance on independent distributors, longer payment cycles, potentially unfavorable changes to foreign tax rules, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, variability of foreign economic conditions, changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws, and general economic and political conditions in the countries where we sell our products and services. We are engaged in offshore software development activities, which may not be successful and which may put our intellectual property at risk. As part of our globalization strategy and to optimize available research and development resources, in fiscal 2006 we established a new subsidiary in Ireland to serve as the focal point for certain international product development and commercialization efforts. This subsidiary oversees remote software development operations in Romania and elsewhere, as well as manages certain of our intellectual property rights. While our experience to date with our offshore development centers has been positive, there is no assurance that this will continue. Specifically, there are a number of risks associated with this activity, including but not limited to the following: •communications and information flow may be less efficient and accurate as a consequence of the time, distance and language differences between our primary development organization and the foreign based activities, resulting in delays in development or errors in the software developed; •in addition to the risk of misappropriation of intellectual property from departing personnel, there is a general risk of the potential for misappropriation of our intellectual property that might not be readily discoverable; •the quality of the development efforts undertaken offshore may not meet our requirements because of language, cultural and experiential differences, resulting in potential product errors and/or delays; •potential disruption from the involvement of the United States in political and military conflicts around the world; and •currency exchange rates could fluctuate and adversely impact the cost advantages intended from maintaining these facilities. One of our most strategic products, BASE24-eps, could prove to be unsuccessful in the market. Our BASE24-eps product is strategic for us, in that it is designated to help us win new accounts, replace legacy payments systems on multiple hardware platforms and help us transition our existing customers to a new, open-systems product architecture. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to generate adequate sales of BASE24-eps, if market acceptance of BASE24-eps is delayed, or if we are unable to successfully deploy BASE24-eps in production environments. Our future profitability depends on demand for our products; lower demand in the future could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Historically, a majority of our total revenues resulted from licensing our BASE24 product line and providing related services and maintenance. Any reduction in demand for, or increase in competition with respect to, the BASE24 product line could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. 19 We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from licensing of software products that operate on HP NonStop servers. Any reduction in demand for HP NonStop servers, or any change in strategy by HP related to support of its NonStop servers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. If we are unable to successfully perform under the terms of our alliance with IBM or our customers are not receptive to the alliance, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. In December 2007, we entered into a Master Alliance Agreement and certain other related agreements with International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") to create a strategic alliance between us and IBM (the "Alliance"). Pursuant to the Alliance Agreement, we agreed to enable our payment application software products on certain of IBM's hardware platforms, including the IBM System z Platform and we agreed to enter into collective sales and marketing efforts with IBM to offer a combination of ACI and IBM solutions. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully enable our products on IBM's hardware platforms or that our customers and potential customers will be receptive to this Alliance or our new sales and marketing strategy. If we are unable to enable our software products on the IBM hardware platforms or the market does not react positively to the Alliance, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our software products may contain undetected errors or other defects, which could damage our reputation with customers, decrease profitability, and expose us to liability. Our software products are complex. They may contain undetected errors or flaws when first introduced or as new versions are released. These undetected errors may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and a corresponding loss of sales or revenues. Customers depend upon our products for mission-critical applications, and these errors may hurt our reputation with customers. In addition, software product errors or failures could subject us to product liability, as well as performance and warranty claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting delivery of services and damaging our reputation. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store, and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, or well-publicized security breaches, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our networks and confidential information. Computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers. 20 Risks associated with future acquisitions and investments could materially adversely affect our business. We may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. During fiscal 2007, we acquired Visual Web and Stratasoft. Any acquisition or investment, including the acquisitions of Visual Web and Stratasoft, is subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. Further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. Our failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, our expectations related to the benefits related to the Visual Web and Stratasoft acquisitions, prior acquisitions in 2005 and 2006 or any other future acquisition or investment could be inaccurate. If our products and services fail to comply with government regulations and industry standards to which are customers are subject, it could result in a loss of customers and decreased revenue. Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our products and services must comply. For example, our products are affected by VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we may be bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we are subject to these limitations and we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on our business. If we experience system failures, the products and services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers. Our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems and data centers. Our systems and 21 operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Any significant interruptions could: •increase our operating expenses to correct problems caused by the interruption; •harm our business and reputation; •result in a loss of customers; or •expose us to liability. Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and technology and may be subject to increasing litigation over our intellectual property rights. To protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of our products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and trade secret and copyright laws. Despite such efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate products, or design around any rights we believe to be proprietary. This may be particularly true in countries other than the United States because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as certain laws of the United States. Any failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the electronic commerce field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is not economical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We anticipate that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions could increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that our present and future products infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may also claim, and we are aware that at least two parties have claimed on several occasions, that our customers' use of a business process method which utilizes our products in conjunction with other products infringe on the third-party's intellectual property rights. These third-party claims could lead to indemnification claims against us by our customers. Claims against our customers related to our products, whether or not meritorious, could harm our reputation and reduce demand for our products. Where indemnification claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage the customer relationship. A successful claim by a third-party of intellectual property infringement by us or one of our customers could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages, or stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to develop alternative non-infringing technology. 22 Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased for third-party products distributed by us or as a result of acquisitions since we have a lower level of visibility, if any, into the development process with respect to such third-party products and acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Our restructuring plan may not achieve expected efficiencies. In October 2005, we announced a plan to restructure our organization because we believed that combining our three business units into a single operating unit would provide us with the best opportunities for focus, operating efficiency and strategic acquisition integration. This restructuring of our three business units into one operating unit is subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our service to customers, and lack of familiarity with markets or products. We cannot assure investors that our expectation of savings expected to stem from the restructuring will be achieved. We may become involved in litigation that could materially adversely affect our business financial condition and/or results of operations. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Failure to successfully defend against these claims could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and appropriate financial reporting. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process, under the supervision of our CEO and CFO, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. As disclosed in this Annual Report, management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identified material weaknesses for recognition of revenue and accounting for income taxes, as discussed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement revised internal controls and procedures, if any, or that revised controls and procedures, if any, will be effective in remedying the potential material weakness in our prior controls and procedures, nor can we provide assurance that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in the future. In addition, we may be required to hire additional employees to help implement these changes, and may experience higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or if other material weaknesses develop and we are unable to effectively address these matters, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 