Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect the Company’s Future Results or the Market Price of the Company’s Common Stock The Company operates in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond the Company’s control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. · In October 2005, the Company announced a restructuring of its organization based on its decision that combining its three business units into a single operating unit provides the Company with the best opportunities for focus, operating efficiency and strategic acquisition integration. This restructuring of the Company’s three business units into one operating unit is 13 subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to diversion of management time and resources, disruption of the Company’s service to customers, and lack of familiarity with markets or products. There can be no assurance that the Company’s expectation of savings as a result of the restructuring will be achieved. · The Company’s backlog estimate is based on management’s assessment of the customer contracts that exist as of the date the estimate is made. All software license fees, maintenance fees and services specified in executed contracts are included in the backlog estimate to the extent that the Company believes that recognition of the related revenues will occur within the next 12 months. A number of factors could result in actual revenues being less than the amounts reflected in backlog. The Company’s customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions in their industries or geographic locations, or the Company may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that contracts included in recurring or non-recurring backlog will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within a 12-month period. · In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R beginning October 1, 2005. This revised accounting standard requires the Company to record noncash compensation expense related to payment for employee services by equity awards, such as stock options, in their financial statements. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R and the noncash expense that is being recorded had a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and reduced its earnings per share. Future grants of stock options and other equity awards, if any, would also increase the noncash expenses the Company must record, which would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and earnings per share. · The Company is subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In addition, the Company has benefited from, and expects to continue to benefit from, implemented tax-saving strategies. The Company believes that implemented tax-saving strategies comply with applicable tax law. However, taxing authorities could disagree with the Company’s positions. If the taxing authorities decided to challenge any of the Company’s tax positions and were successful in such challenges, the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. Four of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are the subject of tax examinations by the local taxing authorities. Other foreign subsidiaries could face challenges from various foreign tax authorities. It is not certain that the local authorities will accept the Company’s tax positions. The Company believes its tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intends to vigorously defend its positions. However, differing positions on certain issues could be upheld by foreign tax authorities, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. · The Company’s business is concentrated in the financial services industry, making it susceptible to a downturn in that industry. Consolidation activity among financial institutions has increased in recent years. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation of financial institutions may result in a fewer number of existing and potential customers for the Company’s products and services. Consolidation of two of the Company’s customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of the 14 Company’s products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity in turn decided to forego future use of the Company’s products, the Company’s revenues would decline. · No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in the Company’s stock price. The Company’s stock price may also be volatile, in part, due to external factors such as announcements by third parties or competitors, inherent volatility in the technology sector and changing market conditions in the software industry. The Company’s stock price may also become volatile, in part, due to developments in the various lawsuits filed against the Company relating to its restatement of prior consolidated financial results. · The Company has historically derived a majority of its revenues from international operations and anticipates continuing to do so, and is thereby subject to risks of conducting international operations. One of the principal risks associated with international operations is potentially adverse movements of foreign currency exchange rates. The Company’s exposures resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may change over time as the Company’s business evolves and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company has not entered into any derivative instruments or hedging contracts to reduce exposure to adverse foreign currency changes. Other potential risks associated with the Company’s international operations include difficulties in staffing and management, reliance on independent distributors, longer payment cycles, potentially unfavorable changes to foreign tax rules, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, variability of foreign economic conditions, changing restrictions imposed by U.S. export laws, and general economic and political conditions in the countries where the Company sells its products and services. · Acts of terrorism or acts of war may cause death or injury to our employees, as well as damage or disruption to the Company’s facilities, customers, partners, distributors or resellers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Such conflicts may also cause damage or disruption to transportation and communication systems and to our ability to manage logistics in such environments, including delivery of products. · The Company’s BASE24-es product is a significant new product for the Company. The Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the Company is unable to generate adequate sales of BASE24-es, if market acceptance of BASE24-es is delayed, or if the Company is unable to successfully deploy BASE24-es in production environments. · Historically, a majority of the Company’s total revenues resulted from licensing its BASE24 product line and providing related services and maintenance. Any reduction in demand for, or increase in competition with respect to, the BASE24 product line could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. · The Company has historically derived a substantial portion of its revenues from licensing of software products that operate on Hewlett-Packard (“HP”) NonStop servers. Any reduction in demand for HP NonStop servers, or any change in strategy by HP related to support of its NonStop servers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. · The Company’s software products are complex. They may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. This may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of the Company’s products and a corresponding loss of sales or revenues. 15 Customers depend upon the Company’s products for mission-critical applications. Software product errors or failures could subject the Company to product liability, as well as performance and warranty claims, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. · The Company may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in other companies. During fiscal 2005, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of S2 Systems, Inc. Any acquisition or investment, including the acquisition of S2, is subject to a number of risks. Such risks may include diversion of management time and resources, disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, difficulties in integrating acquisitions, dilution to existing stockholders if the Company’s common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. The Company’s failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions, including the acquisition of S2, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, the Company’s expectations related to the accretive nature of the S2 acquisition could be inaccurate. · To protect its proprietary rights, the Company relies on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of the Company’s products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and trade secret and copyright laws. Despite such efforts, the Company may not be able to adequately protect its proprietary rights, or the Company’s competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate products or design around any rights the Company believes to be proprietary. This may be particularly true in countries other than the United States because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as certain laws of the United States. Any failure or inability of the Company to protect its proprietary rights could materially adversely affect the Company. · There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to the Company and its customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the electronic commerce field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is not economical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The Company anticipates that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions could increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that the Company’s present and future products infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may also claim, and the Company is aware that at least two parties have claimed on several occasions, that the third party’s intellectual property rights are being infringed by the Company’s customers’ use of a business process method which utilizes the Company’s products in conjunction with other products, which could result in indemnification claims against the Company by customers. Claims against the Company’s customers related to the Company’s products, whether or not meritorious, could harm the Company’s reputation and reduce demand for its products. Where indemnification claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage the customer relationship. Any claim 16 against the Company, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require the Company to develop alternative non-infringing technology. A successful claim by a third party of intellectual property infringement by the Company or one of its customers could compel the Company to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages, or stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to develop alternative non-infringing technology. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased for third party products distributed by the Company or as a result of acquisitions since the Company has a lower level of visibility, if any, into the development process with respect to such third party products and acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. · The Company continues to evaluate the claims made in various lawsuits filed against the Company and certain directors and officers relating to its restatement of prior consolidated financial results. The Company intends to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but cannot predict their outcomes and is not currently able to evaluate the likelihood of its success or the range of potential loss, if any. However, if the Company were to lose any of these lawsuits or if they were not settled on favorable terms, the judgment or settlement could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. The Company has insurance that provides an aggregate coverage of $20.0 million for the period during which the claims were filed, but cannot evaluate at this time whether such coverage will be available or adequate to cover losses, if any, arising out of these lawsuits. If these policies do not adequately cover expenses and liabilities relating to these lawsuits, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially harmed. The Company’s certificate of incorporation provides that it will indemnify, and advance expenses to, its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. The indemnification covers any expenses and liabilities reasonably incurred by a person, by reason of the fact that such person is or was or has agreed to be a director or officer, in connection with the investigation, defense and settlement of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, proceeding or claim. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes the use of indemnification agreements and the Company enters into such agreements with its directors and certain officers from time to time. These indemnification agreements typically provide for a broader scope of the Company’s obligation to indemnify the directors and officers than set forth in the certificate of incorporation. The Company’s contractual indemnification obligations under these agreements are in addition to the respective directors’ and officers’ rights under the certificate of incorporation or under Delaware law. Additional related suits against the Company may be commenced in the future. The Company will fully analyze such suits and intends to vigorously defend against them. There is a risk that the above-described litigation, as well as any additional suits, could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. · From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Failure to successfully defend against these claims could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 17 · New accounting standards, revised interpretations or guidance regarding existing standards, or changes in the Company’s business practices could result in future changes to the Company’s revenue recognition or other accounting policies. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. · The Company is required to assess its internal controls over financial reporting on an ongoing basis. If the Company cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting, or implement new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the its internal control over financial reporting, it may suffer harm to its reputation, fail to meet its regulatory reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to properly report on its financial condition and/or results of operations, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and/or market price of its securities. Additionally, the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements or fraud, regardless of the adequacy of those controls. 