Risk Factors”. 1 Table of Contents Trademarks and Service Marks ACI, the ACI logo, ACI Worldwide, BASE24-eps, BASE24, OpeN/2, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of ACI Worldwide, Inc., or one of its subsidiaries, in the United States and/or other countries. ACI Payment Systems, ACI Payment Systems logo, ACI Payment Systems – Trusted Globally, Agile Payment Solution, ACI Enterprise Banker, ACI Global Banker, ACI Retail Commerce Server, AS/X, ACI Issuer, ACI Acquirer, ACI Interchange, ACI Token Manager, ACI Payments Manager, ACI Card Management System, ACI Smart Chip Manager, ACI Dispute Management System, ACI Simulation Services for Enterprise Testing or ASSET, ACI Money Transfer System, NET24, ACI Proactive Risk Manager, PRM, ACI Case Manager System, ACI Communication Services, ACI Enterprise Security Services, ACI Web Access Services, ACI Monitoring and Management and ACI DataWise, among others, have pending registrations or are common-law trademarks and/or service marks of ACI Worldwide, Inc., or one of its subsidiaries, in the United States and/or other countries. Other parties’ marks referred to in this report are the property of their respective owners. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General ACI Worldwide, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and our subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “ACI”, “ACI Worldwide”, the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) develop, market, install and support a broad line of software products and services primarily focused on facilitating electronic payments. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. These products and services are used principally by financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors, both in domestic and international markets. Most of our products are sold and supported through distribution networks covering three geographic regions – the Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia/Pacific. Each distribution network has its own sales force that it supplements with independent reseller and/or distributor networks. Our products are marketed under the ACI Worldwide and ACI Payment Systems brands. The electronic payments market is comprised of financial institutions, retailers, third-party electronic payment processors, payment associations, switch interchanges and a wide range of transaction-generating endpoints, including automated teller machines (“ATM”), retail merchant locations, bank branches, mobile phones, corporations and Internet commerce sites. The authentication, authorization, switching, settlement and reconciliation of electronic payments is a complex activity due to the large number of locations and variety of sources from which transactions can be generated, the large number of participants in the market, high transaction volumes, geographically dispersed networks, differing types of authorization, and varied reporting requirements. These activities are typically performed online and are often conducted 24 hours a day, seven days a week. ACI Worldwide, Inc. was formed as a Delaware corporation in November 1993 under the name ACI Holding, Inc. and is largely the successor to Applied Communications, Inc. and Applied Communications Inc. Limited, which we acquired from Tandem Computers Incorporated on December 31, 1993. On July 24, 2007, our stockholders approved the adoption of an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to change our corporate name from “Transaction Systems Architects, Inc.” to “ACI Worldwide, Inc.”. We have been marketing our products and services under the ACI Worldwide brand since 1993 and have gained significant market recognition under this brand name. Acquisition On March 18, 2011, we closed the acquisition of ISD Holdings, Inc. and its 100% owned subsidiary ISD Corporation (collectively “ISD”). ISD’s suite of products enables retailers to consolidate, manage, secure and route all electronic transactions from their point-of-sale systems to third party processors for authorization and settlement. The aggregate purchase price of ISD was $19.2 million, after working capital adjustments in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement, including $2.4 million in cash acquired. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to specific assets and liabilities was based on the relative fair value of all assets and liabilities. 2 Table of Contents Subsequent Event S1 Corporation On February 10, 2012, we completed the exchange offer for S1 and all its subsidiaries for approximately $360 million in cash and 5.8 million shares of our stock resulting in a total purchase price of $565 million, or $10.39 per share (the “Merger”). The combination of our company and S1 will create a leader in the global enterprise payments industry. The combined company will have enhanced scale, breadth and additional capabilities, as well as a complementary suite of products that will better serve the entire spectrum of financial institutions, processors and retailers. Stockholders of both companies will benefit from the significant upside potential of a larger, more diversified company that is strongly positioned in a wide range of markets. Under the terms of the transaction, S1 stockholders could elect to receive $10.00 in cash or 0.3148 shares of our stock for each S1 share they own, subject to proration, such that in the aggregate 33.8% of S1 shares are exchanged for the Company’s shares and 66.2% are exchanged for cash. No S1 shareholders received fractional shares of our stock. Instead, the total number of shares that each holder of S1 common stock received was rounded down to the nearest whole number, and we paid cash for any resulting fractional share determined by multiplying the fraction by $34.14. We used $65.0 million of our cash balance for the acquisition in addition to $295.0 million of senior bank financing arranged through Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. See Note 6, Debt, for terms of the financing arrangement. Products Our software products perform a wide range of functions designed to facilitate electronic payments. Generally, our products address three primary market segments: • Retail banking, including debit and credit card issuers • Wholesale banking, including corporate cash management and treasury management operations • Retailers In addition, we market our solutions to third-party electronic payment processors, who serve all three of the above market segments. We also offer solutions that are not industry-specific, but complement our payments products, to address needs for systems connectivity, data synchronization, testing and simulation and systems monitoring. Our products cover six different domains within the payments business: • Online Banking and Cash Management – the initiation of payments through online banking systems as well as the management of cash balances across accounts • Retail Banking Payments – the management of a consumer payment through its lifecycle within the banking system, which we split into Payments Processing, and Card and Merchant Management • Wholesale Banking Payments – the management of primarily corporate payments and messages through their lifecycle including high value and ACH payments, wire transfers and SWIFT transactions • Retail – the management of a consumer payment within the retailer and supporting services such as the management of store and gift card and loyalty programs • Payment Fraud Detection – the securing of payments against fraud and money laundering • Tools and infrastructure – the tools and infrastructure to operate and optimize the payments system The sections below provide an overview of our major software products within these domains. In September 2009, we announced our ACI Agile Payments Solution, the vision for our payments products. The vision recognizes the long term direction to migrate payments processing from the current discrete structures to a service-based delivery mechanism. The first stage of the strategy has been to deliver tight integration between the current products allowing for the delivering of capability solutions that cross domains, for instance Online Banking Fraud Detection. While we are evolving our service offerings into ACI Agile Payments Solution reference architecture, organizations can benefit from the integrated and enterprise capabilities of the existing product suite and start moving towards an agile payments environment. 3 Table of Contents Online Banking and Cash Management Products Within the Online Banking and Cash Management domain, ACI has two products: • ACI Enterprise Banker is a comprehensive Internet-based business banking product for financial institutions including banks, brokerage firms and credit unions and can be flexibly packaged for small, medium and large business customers. This product provides these customers with electronic payment initiation capability, information reporting, and numerous other payment related services that allow the business customer to manage all its banking needs via the Internet. In 2010, the functionality was extended to include mobile banking services solutions. With our partner mShift, we have recently demonstrated a prototype that supports tablets such as the iPad. • ACI Global Banker provides single-window access to corporate cash management, trade finance, FX services, reporting and data exchange. Global Banker supports single-window, Single Sign-On access to a bank’s corporate Internet banking platform. This enterprise-wide, multi-country, multi-language, multi-currency solution allows banks of all sizes to uniquely package products and services for different countries and segments — or even individual customers — from a single, flexible platform. Retail Banking Payments – Payments Processing Our retail payments processing products are designed to route electronic payment transactions from transaction generators to the acquiring institutions so that they can be authorized for payment. The software often interfaces with regional or national switches to access the account-holding financial institution or card issuer for approval or denial of the transactions (authorization). The software returns messages to the original transaction generator (e.g. an ATM), thereby completing the transactions. Depending on how the software is configured, it can perform all of the functions necessary to authenticate, authorize, route and settle an electronic payment transaction, or it can interact with other systems to ensure that these functions are performed. Payments processing software may be required to interact with dozens of devices, switch interchanges and communication protocols around the world. We currently offer the following products for this domain: • BASE24-eps is an integrated electronic payments processing product marketed to customers operating electronic payment networks in the retail banking and retail industries. The modular architecture of the product enables customers to select the application and system components that are required to operate their networks. BASE24-eps offers a broad range of features and functions for electronic payment processing. BASE24-eps allows customers to adapt to changing network needs by supporting 12 different types of ATMs and five different types of point of sale (“POS”) terminals, 48 interchange interfaces, and various authentication, authorization and reporting options with standardized acceptance formats enabling processing of transactions from sources such as internet banking, branch or mobile systems. BASE24-eps uses an object-based architecture and languages such as C++ and Java to offer a flexible, open architecture for the processing of a wide range of electronic payment transactions. BASE24-eps also uses a scripting language to improve overall transaction processing flexibility and improve time to market for new services, reducing the need for traditional systems modifications. BASE24-eps is licensed as a standalone electronic payments solution for financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors. BASE24-eps, which operates on IBM System z, IBM System p, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”) NonStop, and Oracle Solaris servers, provides flexible integration points to other applications and data within enterprises to support 24-hour per day access to money, services and information. On the HP NonStop platform, BASE24-eps uses NET24-XPNET, an ACI developed message oriented middleware solution. ACI continues to support and maintain a number of other retail payments engines which are no longer actively marketed to new customers. • BASE24 is an integrated family of software products previously marketed to customers operating electronic payment networks in the retail banking and retail industries. A substantial portion of ACI’s revenues are derived from licensing the BASE24 family of products and providing related services and maintenance as it has been the core of the ACI business since the Company’s inception. The BASE24 product line operates exclusively on HP NonStop servers. The HP NonStop parallel-processing environment offers fault-tolerance, linear expandability and distributed processing capabilities. The combination of features offered by BASE24 and the HP NonStop technology are important characteristics in high volume, 24-hour per day electronic payment systems. 4 Table of Contents BASE24 makes use of NET24-XPNET, an ACI developed message oriented middleware solution. BASE24-eps was developed specifically to take the BASE24 functionality to a new more flexible architecture, responding to customers’ ideas, as well as allow the functionality to be delivered on a range of hardware platforms. • ON/2 is an integrated electronic payments processing system, exclusively designed for the Stratus VOS operating environment. It authenticates, authorizes, routes and switches transactions generated at ATMs and merchant POS sites. • OpeN/2 is an integrated electronic payments processing system, designed for open-systems environments such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX and Linux. It offers a wide range of electronic payments processing capabilities for financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors. • AS/X a product acquired in the eps AG acquisition, is an integrated electronic payments processing system designed for open-systems environments such as UNIX. It supports a wide range of electronic payments processing capabilities for financial institutions and electronic payment processors in Germany and Switzerland. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 43%, 46% and 46%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from licensing the BASE24 product line, which revenue amounts do not include revenue associated with licensing the BASE24-eps product. Retail Banking Payments – Card and Merchant Management ACI Card and Merchant Management solutions are card issuing and merchant management products, which have been successfully used by the payments industry for many years. These products run on IBM System z, and various Unix and Microsoft Windows servers. The products within back office services are: • ACI Issuer, is a modern card and account management system. It has been developed to support national, international, and global financial institutions. The system has full multi-currency, multi-product, multi-institution and multi-language capabilities. It manages card portfolios in different countries and for different issuers on a single platform and has been built to fully comply with EMV standards. • ACI Acquirer, supports the full lifecycle of merchant portfolio management, including merchant onboarding, transaction acquisition, interchange fee qualification, settlement and statement generation. The system is enabled with the flexibility acquirers require to manage complex merchant portfolios. • ACI Interchange, is the central monetary transaction manager, processing all incoming customer transactions and maintaining a central transactions database. ACI Interchange also manages the clearing and settlement communication with the major international payment schemes, ensuring compliance with Visa, MasterCard, American Express, China Union Pay and JCB. The module can easily be adapted to manage clearing and settlement with additional networks such as domestic payment schemes. • ACI Token Manager consists of a suite of products from ACI’s partner Bell Identification B.V. The Smart Card & Application Management System provides for central lifecycle management of smart cards and other tokens as well as the management of the applications activated within the scheme. The Key Management System facilitates the implementation of security concepts based on the generation, storage, recovery, import and distribution of cryptographic keys. The keys are used for encryption and decryption of data and for verification and authorization of trusted parties using digital certificates. ACI Token Manager for Mobile enables the delivery of payment tokens, such as wallets, to mobile phones. • ACI Payments Manager is an integrated, modular software solution that automates the processing, settlement and reconciliation of electronic transactions, as well as provides plastic card issuance and account management. This product is now primarily marketed in North America. ACI continues to support and maintain several other back office services products which are no longer sold to new customers such as: • ACI Card Management System is a complete plastic card system for issuing cards, maintaining account information, tracking card usage and providing customer service. 5 Table of Contents • ACI Smart Chip Manager supports the deployment of stored-value and other chip card applications used at smart card-enabled devices. • ACI Dispute Management System provides issuers the ability to work retail discrepancies caused by processing errors, disputes, charge backs and fraud. Wholesale Banking Payments Our wholesale banking payments solutions are focused on global, super-regional and regional financial institutions that provide treasury management services to large corporations. In addition, the market includes non-bank financial institutions with the need to conduct their own internal treasury management activities. Our wholesale banking payments solution, ACI Money Transfer System provides high value payments processing, bulk payments processing and global messaging. The high value payments processing function, which produces the majority of revenues for the ACI Money Transfer System, is used to generate, authorize, route, settle and control high value wire transfer transactions in domestic and international environments. The ACI Money Transfer System product operates on IBM System p servers using the AIX operating system and communicates over proprietary networks using a variety of messaging formats, including S.W.I.F.T., EBA, Target, Ellips, CEC, RTGSplus, Fedwire, CHIPS and Telex. Retail ACI Retail Commerce Server, our solution for retailers, is an integrated suite of electronic payments products that facilitate a broad range of capabilities. These capabilities include prepaid, debit and credit card processing, ACH processing, electronic benefits transfer, card issuance and management, check authorization, customer loyalty programs and returned check collection. The Retail Commerce Server product line operates on open systems technologies such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX and Linux, with most of the current installations deployed on the Microsoft Windows platform. In 2011, ACI acquired ISD and has integrated the acquired functionality into Retail Commerce Server including delivering capability for solving the PCI compliance needs of retailers. Payment Fraud Detection • ACI Proactive Risk Manager is a neural network-based fraud detection system designed to help card issuers, merchants, merchant acquirers and financial institutions combat fraud schemes. The system combines the pattern recognition capability of neural-network transaction scoring with custom risk models of expert rules-based strategies and advanced client/server account management software. The real time capability enables fraud assessment to be part of the authorization process preventing fraud occurring. ACI Proactive Risk Manager operates on IBM System z, HP NonStop, Oracle Solaris and Microsoft Windows servers. There are six editions of Proactive Risk Manager, each of which is tailored for specific industry needs. The six editions are debit, credit, merchant, private label, money laundering detection and enterprise. • ACI Case Manager offers customers the flexibility to automate activities and processes across the complete lifecycle of a case. Cases are created when fraud officers checking an alert within ACI Proactive Risk Manager identify fraud or money laundering. The solution is a basic framework that defines processes for researching and resolving cases, including investigation resources, timeframes, escalation paths and alerts. The ACI Case Manager also acts as a central repository for case histories and resource activities to provide organizations with centralized auditing capabilities. Tools and Infrastructure The Tools and Infrastructure products provide specific technology extensions to augment the business services provided in the five business service domains described above. • ACI Communication Services provides a range of communication services to enable message exchange on multiple platforms in particular enabling applications to support legacy protocols, such as SNA and X.25, running over TCP/IP networks. It also supports hybrid networking environments such as IBM’s HPR/IP. This set of products runs on HP NonStop, IBM System z and Unix platforms. • ACI Enterprise Security Services is a suite of security solutions that secure access to systems and resources. These products run on the HP NonStop platform and are designed to take advantage of HP NonStop fundamentals. 6 Table of Contents • ACI Web Access Services allows HP NonStop users to securely expose existing applications to peer systems as well as PC clients and web browsers. Web Access Services supports new GUI client development, standard 6530 and 3270E terminal emulation or automated data stream transformation to give users a range of options for integrating NonStop services across the enterprise. • ACI Simulation Services for Enterprise Testing (ASSET) is a simulation and testing tool that allows companies involved in electronic payments to simulate devices and transactions, and perform application testing. • ACI Payment Service Management powered by Prognosis. In 2010, we formed a partnership with Integrated Research Limited (“Integrated Research”) to resell their Prognosis product. This provides intelligent payment service management through in-depth monitoring and analysis of transactions, applications, supporting IT infrastructure, and payments devices. Prognosis is available for use with BASE24, BASE24-eps, ACI Proactive Risk Manager, and ACI Money Transfer System. Partnerships and Industry Participation We have two major types of third-party partners: technology partners, where we work closely with industry leaders who drive key industry trends and mandates, and business partners, where we either embed technology in ACI products or jointly market solutions that include the products of other companies. Technology partners help us add value to our solutions, stay abreast of current market conditions and industry developments such as standards. Technology partner organizations include Diebold, NCR, Wincor-Nixdorf, VISA, MasterCard and S.W.I.F.T. In addition ACI has membership in or participates in the relevant committees of a number of industry associations, such as the International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”), Interactive Financial eXchange Forum (“IFX”), International Payments Framework Association (“IPFA”), UK Cards Association and the PCI Security Standards Council. Business partner relationships extend our product portfolio, improve our ability to get our solutions to market and enhance our ability to deliver market-leading solutions. We share revenues with these business partners based on a number of factors related to overall value contribution in the delivery of our joint solution. The agreements with business partners include joint marketing and traditional original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) relationships. These agreements generally grant ACI the right to create an integrated solution that we distribute or represent on a worldwide basis and have a term of several years. We have strategic alliances with our business partners HP, IBM and Oracle, whose industry leading hardware and software are utilized by ACI’s products. These partnerships allow us to understand developments in their technology and to utilize their expertise in topics like performance testing. The following is a list of key business partners: • Accuity, Inc. • ACE Software Solutions Inc. • Bell ID • FairCom Corporation • HP • IBM • Integrated Research • Intuit, Inc. • iPay Technologies, LLC • MShift, Inc. • Opera Solutions, LLC • Oracle USA, Inc. • RSA, The Security Division of EMC Corporation • Sterci Group • Symantec Corporation 7 Table of Contents Services We offer our customers a wide range of professional services, including analysis, design, development, implementation, integration and training. We have service professionals within each of our three geographic regions who generally perform the majority of the work associated with installing and integrating our software products, rather than relying on third-party systems integrators. We offer the following types of services for our customers: • Implementation Services. We utilize a standard methodology to deliver customer project implementations across all products lines. Within the process, we provide customers with a variety of services, including on-site solution scoping reviews, project planning, training, site preparation, installation, product configuration, product customization, testing and go-live support, and project management throughout the project lifecycle. Implementation services are typically priced according to the level of technical expertise required. • Technical Services. The majority of our technical services are provided to customers who have licensed one or more of our software products. Services offered include programming and programming support, day-to-day systems operations, network operations, help desk staffing, quality assurance testing, problem resolution, system design, and performance planning and review. Technical services are typically priced according to the level of technical expertise required. • Facilities Management. We offer facilities management services whereby we operate a customer’s electronic payments system for multi-year periods. Pricing and payment terms for facilities management services vary on a case-by-case basis giving consideration to the complexity of the facility or system to be managed, the level and quantity of technical services required, and other factors relevant to the facilities management agreement. • ACI On Demand. We offer a service whereby we host a customer’s system for them as opposed to the customer licensing and installing the system on their own site. We offer several of our solutions in this manner, including our retail and wholesale payment engines, risk management and online banking products. Each customer gets a unique image of the system that can be tailored to meet their needs. The product is generally located on facilities and hardware that we provide. Pricing and payment terms depend on which solutions the customer requires and their transaction volumes. Generally, customers are required to commit to a minimum contract of three to five years. Customer Support We provide our customers with product support that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. If requested by a customer, the product support group can remotely access that customer’s systems on a real-time basis. This allows the product support group to help diagnose and correct problems to enhance the continuous availability of a customer’s business-critical systems. We offer our customers both a general maintenance plan and an extended service option. • General Maintenance. After software installation and project completion, we provide maintenance services to customers for a monthly product support fee. Maintenance services include: • 24-hour hotline for problem resolution • Customer account management support • Vendor-required mandates and updates • Product documentation • Hardware operating system compatibility • User group membership • Enhanced Support Program. Under the extended service option, referred to as the Enhanced Support Program, each customer is assigned an experienced technician to work with its system. The technician typically performs functions such as: • Install and test software fixes • Retrofit custom software modifications (“CSMs”) into new software releases • Answer questions and resolve problems related to CSM code • Maintain a detailed CSM history 8 Table of Contents • Monitor customer problems on HELP24 hotline database on a priority basis • Supply on-site support, available upon demand • Perform an annual system review We provide new releases of our products on a periodic basis. New releases of our products, which often contain product enhancements, are typically provided at no additional fee for customers under maintenance agreements. Agreements with our customers permit us to charge for substantial product enhancements that are not provided as part of the maintenance agreement. Competition The electronic payments market is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Competitive factors affecting the market for our products and services include product features, price, availability of customer support, ease of implementation, product and company reputation, and a commitment to continued investment in research and development. Our competitors vary by product line, geography and market segment. Generally, our most significant competition comes from in-house information technology departments of existing and potential customers, as well as third-party electronic payments processors (some of whom are our customers). Many of these companies are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Key competitors by product domain include the following: Online Banking and Cash Management Principal competitors for the Online Banking and Cash Management product set are Clear2Pay NV/SA (“Clear2Pay”), Intuit Corporation and Fundtech Ltd, as well as payment processing companies First Data Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc, and Fiserv, Inc. Retail Banking Payments The third-party software competitors for the products in the retail banking payments are Clear2Pay, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., OpenWay Group, and Total System Services, Inc. (“TSYS”), as well as small, regionally-focused companies such as Alaric Technology Inc., BPC Banking Technologies, Distra Pty. Ltd., PayEx Solutions AS, Lusis Payments Ltd., and Opus Software Solutions Private Limited. Primary electronic payment processing competitors in this area include global entities such as Atos Origin S.A., Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., First Data Corporation, SiNSYS, TSYS, VISA and MasterCard, as well as regional or country-specific processors. Wholesale Banking Payments In the wholesale banking payments the principal competitors are Bankserv, Clear2Pay, Dovetail Software, Fundtech Ltd, IBM, Logica Plc and Tieto Corporation. Retail Competitors in the retail sector come from both third party software and service providers as well service organizations run by major banks. Third party software and service competitors include AJB Software Design, Inc., Heartland Payment Systems, Inc., Servebase Computers Ltd, Tender Retail Inc., and VeriFone Systems, Inc. Payments Fraud Detection Principal competitors for the payments fraud detection products are Actimize, Inc., Fair Isaac Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., Fiserv, Inc., Memento Inc., Norkom Technologies, and SAS Institute, Inc., as well as dozens of smaller companies focused on niches of this segment such as anti-money laundering. 9 Table of Contents Tools and Infrastructure The principal competitors for the tools and infrastructure products are CA Technologies, HP, IBM and Oracle USA, Inc., as well as dozens of small, niche-focused competitors. As markets continue to evolve in the electronic payments, risk management and smartcard sectors, we may encounter new competitors for our products and services. As electronic payment transaction volumes increase and banks face price competition, third-party processors may become stronger competition in our efforts to market our solutions to smaller financial institutions. In the larger financial institution market, we believe that third-party processors may be less competitive since large institutions attempt to differentiate their electronic payment product offerings from their competition, and are more likely to develop or continue to support their own internally-developed solutions or use third-party software packages such as those we offer. Research and Development Our product development efforts focus on new products and improved versions of existing products. We facilitate user group meetings to help us determine our product strategy, development plans and aspects of customer support. The user groups are generally organized geographically or by product lines. We believe that the timely development of new applications and enhancements is essential to maintain our competitive position in the market. In developing new products, we work closely with our customers and industry leaders to determine requirements. We work with device manufacturers, such as Diebold, NCR and Wincor-Nixdorf, to ensure compatibility with the latest ATM technology. We work with network vendors, such as MasterCard, VISA and S.W.I.F.T, to ensure compliance with new regulations or processing mandates. We work with computer hardware and software manufacturers, such as HP, IBM, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle and Stratus Technologies, Inc. to ensure compatibility with new operating system releases and generations of hardware. Customers often provide additional information on requirements and serve as beta-test partners. Our total research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $90.2 million, $74.1 million, and $77.5 million, or 19.4%, 17.7%, and 19.1% of total revenues, respectively. Customers We provide software products and services to customers in a range of industries worldwide, with financial institutions, retailers and e-payment processors comprising our largest industry segments. As of December 31, 2011, our customers include 18 of the top 20 banks worldwide, as measured by asset size, 14 of the top 20 retailers in the United States, as measured by revenue, and six of the leading 25 global retailers. As of December 31, 2011, we had 784 customers in 79 countries on six continents. Of this total, 451 are in the Americas reportable segment, 207 are in the EMEA reportable segment and 126 are in the Asia/Pacific reportable segment. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. One customer in the Americas reportable segment accounted for 12.6% of our consolidated accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2011. Selling and Marketing Our primary method of distribution is direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions or specific products. In addition, we use distributors and sales agents to supplement our direct sales force in countries where business practices or customs make it appropriate, or where it is more economical to do so. We generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, direct marketing programs, customers and prospects, or through referrals. Current international distributors and sales agents for us during the year ended December 31, 2011 included: • DataOne Asia Co (Thailand) • Korea Computer Inc (Korea) • North Data S.A. (Uruguay) • Optimisa (Chile) • P.T. Abhimata Persada (Indonesia) • PTESA (Columbia) • PTESAVEN C.A. (Venezuela) • Syscom Computer Engineering (Taiwan) • Syscom Computer (Shenzhen) (China) 10 Table of Contents We distribute the products of other vendors where they complement our existing product lines. We are typically responsible for the sales and marketing of the vendor’s products, and agreements with these vendors generally provide for revenue sharing based on relative responsibilities. In addition to our principal sales offices in Omaha and Waltham, we also have sales offices located outside the United States in Athens, Bahrain, Bangkok, Beijing, Buenos Aires, Dubai Internet City, Gouda, Johannesburg, Kuala Lumpur, Madrid, Manila, Melbourne, Mexico City, Milan, Moscow, Mumbai, Naples, Paris, Riyadh, Sao Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Sulzbach, Sydney, Tokyo, Toronto, and Watford. Proprietary Rights and Licenses We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, license agreements, contractual provisions and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We distribute our software products under software license agreements that typically grant customers nonexclusive licenses to use our products. Use of our software products is usually restricted to designated computers, specified locations and/or specified capacity, and is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our software products. We also seek to protect the source code of our software as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of our software products and technology will not occur. In addition to our own products, we distribute, or act as a sales agent for, software developed by third parties. However, we typically are not involved in the development process used by these third parties. Our rights to those third-party products and the associated intellectual property rights are limited by the terms of the contractual agreement between us and the respective third-party. Although we believe that our owned and licensed intellectual property rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Further, there can be no assurance that intellectual property protection will be available for our products in all foreign countries. Like many companies in the electronic commerce and other high-tech industries, third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Third parties may also claim that the third-party’s intellectual property rights are being infringed by our customers’ use of a business process method which utilizes products in conjunction with other products, which could result in indemnification claims against us by our customers. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We could also be required to defend or indemnify our customers against such claims. A successful claim by a third-party of intellectual property infringement by us or one of our customers could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages or even stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to develop alternative non-infringing technology. Segment Information and Foreign Operations We derive a significant portion of our revenues from foreign operations. For detail of revenue by geographic region see Note 12, “Segment Information”, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of approximately 2,131 employees of whom 1,130 were in the Americas reportable segment, 593 were in the EMEA reportable segment and 408 were in the Asia/Pacific reportable segment. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are good. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on our website at www.aciworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information electronically with the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference 11 Table of Contents Room at 100 F Street, Room 1580, NW, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Executive Officers of the Registrant As of February 22, 2012, our executive officers, their ages and their positions were as follows. September 30, September 30, Name Age Position Philip G. Heasley 62 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Scott W. Behrens 40 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Craig A. Maki 45 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Corporate Development Officer Dennis P. Byrnes 48 Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary David N. Morem 54 Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations Charles H. Linberg 54 Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Mr. Heasley has been a director and our President and Chief Executive Officer since March 2005. Mr. Heasley has a comprehensive background in payment systems and financial services. From October 2003 to March 2005, Mr. Heasley served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PayPower LLC, an acquisition and consulting firm specializing in financial services and payment services. Mr. Heasley served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of First USA Bank from October 2000 to November 2003. Prior to joining First USA Bank, from 1987 until 2000, Mr. Heasley served in various capacities for U.S. Bancorp, including Executive Vice President, and President and Chief Operating Officer. Before joining U.S. Bancorp, Mr. Heasley spent 13 years at Citicorp, including three years as President and Chief Operating Officer of Diners Club, Inc. Mr. Heasley is also a director of Official Payments Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: OPAY), a provider of electronic payment solutions for the biller direct market, and Lender Processing Services, Inc. (NYSE: LPS), a provider of mortgage processing services, settlement services, mortgage performance analytics and default solutions. Mr. Heasley also serves on the National Infrastructure Advisory Board. Mr. Behrens serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Behrens joined ACI in June 2007 as our Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Behrens was appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2008. Prior to joining ACI, Mr. Behrens served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at SITEL Corporation from January 2005 to June 2007. He also served as Vice President of Financial Reporting at SITEL Corporation from April 2003 to January 2005. From 1993 to 2003, Mr. Behrens was with Deloitte & Touche, LLP, including two years as a Senior Audit Manager. Mr. Behrens holds a Bachelor of Science (Honors) from the University of Nebraska—Lincoln. Mr. Maki serves as Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Corporate Development Officer. Mr. Maki joined the Company in June 2006. Mr. Maki was appointed Treasurer in January 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Maki served as Senior Vice President for Stephens, Inc. from 1999 through 2006. From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Maki was a Director in the Corporate Finance group at Arthur Andersen and from 1991 to 1994, he was a Senior Consultant at Andersen Consulting. Mr. Maki graduated from the University of Wyoming and received his Master of Business Administration from the University of Denver. Mr. Byrnes serves as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Byrnes joined the Company in June 2003. Prior to that Mr. Byrnes served as an attorney in Bank One Corporation’s technology group from 2002 to 2003. From 1996 to 2002 Mr. Byrnes was an executive officer at Sterling Commerce, Inc., an electronic commerce software and services company, serving as that company’s general counsel from 2000. From 1991 to 1996 Mr. Byrnes was an attorney with Baker Hostetler, a national law firm with over 600 attorneys. Mr. Byrnes holds a JD (cum laude) from The Ohio State University College of Law, a Master of Business Administration from Xavier University and a Bachelor of Science in engineering (magna cum laude) from Case Western Reserve University. Mr. Morem joined the Company in June 2005 and serves as Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations. Prior to his appointment as Senior Vice President, Global Business Operations in January 2008, Mr. Morem served as Chief Administrative Officer of the Company. Prior to joining ACI, Mr. Morem held executive positions at GE Home Loans, Bank One Card Services and U.S. Bank. Mr. Morem brings more than 25 years of experience in process management, finance, credit operations, credit policy and change management. Mr. Morem holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Minnesota and a Master of Business Administration from the University of St. Thomas. 12 Table of Contents Mr. Linberg serves as Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. In this capacity he is responsible for the architectural direction of ACI products including the formation of platform, middleware and integration strategies. Mr. Linberg joined the Company in 1988 and has served in various technical management roles including Vice President of Payment Systems, Vice President of Architecture and Technology, Vice President of BASE24 Development and Vice President of Network Systems. Prior to joining ACI, Mr. Linberg was Vice President of Research and Development at XRT, Inc., where he led the development of XRT’s proprietary fault-tolerant LAN/WAN communications middleware, relational database and 4GL products. Mr. Linberg holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the University of Delaware. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Common Stock We operate in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. The continuing global financial crisis affecting the banking and financial markets and the continuing decline in global economic conditions could reduce the demand for our products and services or otherwise adversely impact our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. The continuing global financial crisis and downturn in global economic conditions have reached unprecedented levels over the past few years. As a result of these conditions, including, the declining real estate and retail markets, changes in bank credit quality in the United States or abroad, extreme capital and credit market volatility, higher unemployment and declining business and consumer confidence, the global banking and financial markets have suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. For the foreseeable future, we expect to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the banking and financial services industries. The global electronic payments industry and the banking and financial services industries depend heavily upon the overall levels of consumer, business and government spending. The current economic conditions and the potential for increased or continuing disruptions in these industries as well as the general software sector could result in a decrease in consumers’ use of banking services and financial service providers resulting in significant decreases in the demand for our products and services which could adversely affect our business and operating results. A lessening demand in either the overall economy, the banking and financial services industry or the software sector could also result in the implementation by banks and related financial service providers of cost reduction measures or reduced capital spending resulting in longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition which could lead to a material decrease in our future revenues and earnings. The current financial crisis has also resulted in the bankruptcy, closure, acquisition of, or government assistance to, many domestic and international financial institutions as well as the credit deterioration of many financial institutions. As the industry continues to experience contraction in the number of participating institutions, our existing customers may be acquired by or merged with other financial institutions that have their own electronic payment solutions or be closed by regulators which reduces the number of our customers and potential customers which could result in fewer opportunities for revenue growth, decreased sales and adversely impact our operating results. Moreover, to the degree that the financial crisis and the volatility in the credit markets continues to deteriorate the credit of financial institutions and makes it more difficult for our customers to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet their operating needs or obtain financing, customers may be unable to timely meet their payment obligations to us and we may experience greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to access financing. While we intend to finance our operations and growth of our business with existing cash and cash flow from operations, if adverse global economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience a decrease in cash from operations attributable to reduced demand for our products and services and as a result, we may need to borrow additional amounts under our existing credit facility or we may require additional financing for our continued operation and growth. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and the impact of the current economic crisis on our operating results and financial conditions, the amount of available unused borrowings under our existing credit facility may be insufficient to meet our needs and/or our access to capital outside of our existing credit facility may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, if one or more of the financial institutions in our syndicate were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the committed facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. There can be no assurance that alternative financing on acceptable terms would be available to replace any defaulted commitments. 13 Table of Contents Consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may adversely impact the number of customers and our revenues in the future. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at key financial services organizations have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is concentrated in the financial services industry, making us susceptible to consolidation in, or contraction of the number of participating institutions within, that industry. Consolidation activity among financial institutions has increased in recent years and the current financial crisis has resulted in even further consolidation and contraction as financial institutions have failed or have been acquired by or merged with other financial institutions. There are several potential negative effects of increased consolidation activity. Continuing consolidation and failure of financial institutions could cause us to lose existing and potential customers for our products and services. For instance, consolidation of two of our customers could result in reduced revenues if the combined entity were to negotiate greater volume discounts or discontinue use of certain of our products. Additionally, if a non-customer and a customer combine and the combined entity in turn decided to forego future use of our products, our revenues would decline. The software market is a rapidly changing and highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The software market is characterized by rapid change, evolving technologies and industry standards and intense competition. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share or customer base. We face intense competition in our business and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. We have many competitors that are significantly larger than us and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, have well-established relationships with our current or potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to the market with new products and services. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. Increased competition in our markets could lead to price reductions, reduced profits, or loss of market share. The current global economic conditions could also result in increased price competition for our products and services. To compete successfully, we need to maintain a successful research and development effort. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology and industry standards, bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, or accurately predict future changes in our customers’ needs and our competitors develop new technologies or products, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. Our current credit facility contains restrictions and other financial covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens; incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. Our credit facility also requires us to meet certain quarterly financial tests, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Our credit facility includes customary events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay principal or interest, breach of covenants or representations and warranties, cross-default to other indebtedness, judgment default and insolvency. If an event of default occurs under the credit facility, the lenders will be entitled to take various actions, including, but not limited to, demanding payment for all amounts outstanding. If adverse global economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to reduced demand for our products and services and as a result, we could fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing credit facility, resulting in an event of default. If we are unable to cure the default or obtain a waiver, we will not be able to access our credit facility and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. We may face risks related to recent restatements of our financial statements. Prior to filing the 2008 Annual Report, we determined that we needed to restate our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 to make adjustments related to the recognition of $1.9 million of revenue during that quarter for a software project in the Asia/Pacific reportable operating segment which should have been deferred until further project milestones were achieved. As a result, we also amended our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q/A for the periods ended June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 to report year-to-date data reflecting the adjustments made in the restated consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. 14 Table of Contents Companies that restate their financial statements sometimes face litigation claims and/or SEC proceedings following such a restatement. We could face monetary judgments, penalties or other sanctions which could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. Management’s backlog estimate may not be accurate and may not generate the predicted revenues. Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Our backlog estimates require substantial judgment and are based on a number of assumptions, including management’s current assessment of customer and third party contracts that exist as of the date the estimates are made, as well as revenues from assumed contract renewals, to the extent that we believe that recognition of the related revenue will occur within the corresponding backlog period. A number of factors could result in actual revenues being less than the amounts reflected in backlog. Our customers or third party partners may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition, or general changes in economic conditions within their industries or geographic locations, or we may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts. Actual renewal rates and amounts may differ from historical experiences used to estimate backlog amounts. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that contracts included in backlog will actually generate the specified revenues or that the actual revenues will be generated within a 12-month or 60-month period. Additionally, because backlog estimates are operating metrics, the estimates are not required to be subject to the same level of internal review or controls as a generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) financial measure. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets could negatively affect our financial results. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent a significant portion of our total assets at December 31, 2011. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially negatively affect our results of operations. We may face exposure to unknown tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. We are subject to income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. In addition, we expect to continue to benefit from implemented tax-saving strategies. We believe that these tax-saving strategies comply with applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law and successfully challenge any of our tax positions, our financial condition and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. Two of our foreign subsidiaries are the subject of a tax examination by the local taxing authorities. Other foreign subsidiaries could face challenges from various foreign tax authorities. It is not certain that the local authorities will accept our tax positions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and intend to vigorously defend our positions. However, differing positions on certain issues could be upheld by foreign tax authorities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. There are a number of risks associated with our international operations that could have a material impact on our operations and financial condition. We have historically derived a majority of our revenues from international operations and anticipate continuing to do so. As a result, we are subject to risks of conducting international operations. One of the principal risks associated with international operations is potentially adverse movements of foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposures resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may change over time as our business evolves and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have not entered into any derivative instruments or hedging contracts to reduce exposure to adverse foreign currency changes. Other potential risks include difficulties associated with staffing and management, reliance on independent distributors, longer payment cycles, potentially unfavorable changes to foreign tax rules, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information, 15 Table of Contents reduced protection of intellectual property rights, variability of foreign economic conditions, governmental currency controls, difficulties in enforcing our contracts in foreign jurisdictions, and general economic and political conditions in the countries where we sell our products and services. Some of our products may contain encrypted technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. Changes in United States and other applicable export laws and regulations restricting the export of software or encryption technology could result in delays or reductions in our shipments of products internationally. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address these challenges. We are engaged in offshore software development activities, which may not be successful and which may put our intellectual property at risk. As part of our globalization strategy and to optimize available research and development resources, we utilize our Irish subsidiary to serve as the focal point for certain international product development and commercialization efforts. This subsidiary oversees remote software development operations in Romania and elsewhere, as well as manages certain of our intellectual property rights. In additional we manage certain offshore development activities in India. While our experience to date with our offshore development centers has been positive, there is no assurance that this will continue. Specifically, there are a number of risks associated with this activity, including but not limited to the following: • communications and information flow may be less efficient and accurate as a consequence of the time, distance and language differences between our primary development organization and the foreign based activities, resulting in delays in development or errors in the software developed; • in addition to the risk of misappropriation of intellectual property from departing personnel, there is a general risk of the potential for misappropriation of our intellectual property that might not be readily discoverable; • the quality of the development efforts undertaken offshore may not meet our requirements because of language, cultural and experiential differences, resulting in potential product errors and/or delays; • potential disruption from the involvement of the United States in political and military conflicts around the world; and • currency exchange rates could fluctuate and adversely impact the cost advantages intended from maintaining these facilities. Potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and internationally. For banks, financial institutions and other potential customers of our products, switching from one vendor of core financial services software (or from an internally-developed legacy system) to a new vendor is a significant endeavor. Many potential customers believe switching vendors involves too many potential disadvantages such as disruption of business operations, loss of accustomed functionality, and increased costs (including conversion and transition costs). As a result, potential customers may resist change. We seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion/migration process, continued investment in the enhanced functionality of our software and system integration expertise. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers’ reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and internationally. One of our most strategic products, BASE24-eps, could prove to be unsuccessful in the market. Our BASE24-eps product is strategic for us, in that it is designated to help us win new accounts, replace legacy payments systems on multiple hardware platforms and help us transition our existing customers to a new, open-systems product architecture. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to generate adequate sales of BASE24-eps, if market acceptance of BASE24-eps is delayed, or if we are unable to successfully deploy BASE24-eps in production environments. Our announcement of the maturity of certain legacy retail payment products may result in decreased customer investment in our products and our strategy to migrate customers to our next generation products may be unsuccessful which may adversely impact our business and financial condition, including the timing of revenue recognition associated with the legacy retail payment products. Our announcement related to the maturity of certain retail payment engines may result in customer decisions not to purchase or otherwise invest in these engines, related products and/or services. Alternatively, the maturity of these products may result in delayed customer purchase decisions or the renegotiation of contract terms based upon scheduled maturity activities. In addition, our strategy related to migrating customers to our next generation products may be unsuccessful. Reduced investments in our products, deferral or delay in purchase commitments by our customers or our failure to successfully manage our migration strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our announcement of the maturity of certain legacy retail payment products, and customer migrations to our next generation products, may result in ratable or deferred recognition of certain revenue associated with the legacy retail payment products. As a result of the maturity announcement, certain up-front fees associated with the legacy payment engines, including initial license fees, may become subject to ratable revenue recognition over time rather than up front at the time of contract. This will result in a delay in the recognition of these up-front fees. Additionally, customers may negotiate terms associated with their migration to BASE24-eps which may cause the recognition of revenue associated with the customer’s legacy payment engine to be deferred pending the completion of the migration. Our future profitability depends on demand for our products; lower demand in the future could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Historically, a majority of our total revenues resulted from licensing our BASE24 product line and providing related services and maintenance. Any reduction in demand for, or increase in competition with respect to, the BASE24 product line could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from licensing of software products that operate on HP NonStop servers. Any reduction in demand for HP NonStop servers, or any change in strategy by HP related to support of its NonStop servers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. Failure to obtain renewals of customer contracts or obtain such renewals on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of customer contracts could negatively impact our business. Our contracts with our customers generally run for a period of five years. At the end of the contract term, customers have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us and to consider whether to engage one of our competitors to provide products and services. Failure to achieve high renewal rates on commercially favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The delay or cancellation of a customer project or inaccurate project completion estimates may adversely affect our operating results and financial performance. Any unanticipated delays in a customer project, changes in customer requirements or priorities during the project implementation period, or a customer’s decision to cancel a project, may adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. In addition, during the project implementation period, we perform ongoing estimates of the progress being made on complex and difficult projects and documenting this progress is subject to potential inaccuracies. Changes in project completion estimates are heavily dependent on the accuracy of our initial project completion estimates and our ability to evaluate project profits and losses. Any inaccuracies or changes in estimates resulting from changes in customer requirements, delays or inaccurate initial project completion estimates may result in increased project costs and adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. If we experience business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems, the availability of our products and services could be interrupted which could adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition. Our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our data centers, information technology and communication systems, and those of our external service providers. As we continue to grow our On Demand business, our dependency on the continuing operation and availability of these systems increases. Our systems and data centers, and those of our external service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures and we have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption, such steps may not be sufficient to prevent an interruption of services and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. 17 Table of Contents An operational failure or outage in any of these systems, or damage to or destruction of these systems, which causes disruptions in our services, could result in loss of customers, damage to customer relationships, reduced revenues and profits, refunds of customer charges and damage to our brand and reputation and may require us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment and recover data loss caused by the interruption. Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully perform under the terms of our alliance with IBM or our customers are not receptive to the alliance, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. In December 2007, we entered into a Master Alliance Agreement and certain other related agreements with IBM to create a strategic alliance between us and IBM (the “Alliance”). On December 16, 2011, the parties agreed that the Alliance Agreement would not be extended beyond its initial term. Accordingly, the term of the Alliance Agreement will expire on December 16, 2012. The Alliance Agreement contemplates enabling our payment application software products on certain of IBM’s hardware platforms and entering into collective sales and marketing efforts with IBM. There can be no assurance that the parties will meet their obligations under the Alliance Agreement or effectively transition off the Alliance Agreement. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully enable our products on IBM’s hardware platforms or that our customers and potential customers will be receptive to this Alliance or our new sales and marketing strategy. If we are unable to enable our software products on the IBM hardware platforms or the market does not react positively to the Alliance, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our software products may contain undetected errors or other defects, which could damage our reputation with customers, decrease profitability, and expose us to liability. Our software products are complex. Software typically contains bugs or errors that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software products. Our software products may contain undetected errors or flaws when first introduced or as new versions are released. These undetected errors may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and a corresponding loss of sales or revenues. Customers depend upon our products for mission-critical applications, and these errors may hurt our reputation with customers. In addition, software product errors or failures could subject us to product liability, as well as performance and warranty claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting delivery of services and damaging our reputation. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store, and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, or well-publicized security breaches, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our networks and confidential information. Computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers. If our products and services fail to comply with legislation, government regulations and industry standards to which our customers are subject, it could result in a loss of customers and decreased revenue. Legislation, governmental regulation and industry standards affect how our business is conducted, and in some cases, could subject us to the possibility of future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Globally, legislation, governmental regulation and industry standards may directly or indirectly impact our current and prospective customers’ activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. For example, our products are affected by VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. In addition, action by government and regulatory authorities such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act relating to financial regulatory reform, as well as legislation and regulation related to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we may be bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we are subject to these limitations and we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and technology and may be subject to increasing litigation over our intellectual property rights. To protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of our products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and trade secret and copyright laws. Despite such efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate products, or design around any rights we believe to be proprietary. This may be particularly true in countries other than the United States because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as certain laws of the United States. Any failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the electronic commerce field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is not economical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement, or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We anticipate that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions could increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that our present and future products infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may also claim, and we are aware that at least two parties have claimed on several occasions, that our customers’ use of a business process method which utilizes our products in conjunction with other products infringe on the third-party’s intellectual property rights. These third-party claims could lead to indemnification claims against us by our customers. Claims against our customers related to our products, whether or not meritorious, could harm our reputation and reduce demand for our products. Where indemnification claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage the customer relationship. A successful claim by a third-party of intellectual property infringement by us or one of our customers could compel us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, pay significant damages, or stop selling certain products and incur additional costs to develop alternative non-infringing technology. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased for third-party products distributed by us or as a result of acquisitions since we have a lower level of visibility, if any, into the development process with respect to such third-party products and acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. If we engage in acquisitions, strategic partnerships or significant investments in new business, we will be exposed to risks which could materially adversely affect our business. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate that we may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel, or through investments in, or strategic partnerships with, other companies. Any acquisition, investment or partnership, including our recently completed acquisitions of ISD and S1, are subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, potential overpayment for the acquired company or assets, dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition which may increase our interest expense and leverage significantly, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. 19 Table of Contents Further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we may encounter issues not discovered during our due diligence process, including product or service quality issues, intellectual property issues and legal contingencies, the internal control environment of the acquired entity may not be consistent with our standards and may require significant time and resources to improve and we may impair relationships with employees and customers as a result of migrating a business or product line to a new owner. We will also face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, customers and business partners, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully, realize synergies expected to result from the acquisition, advance our business strategy or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing the businesses together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may further disrupt our business and divert our resources. Our failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, our expectations related to the benefits related to the ISD and S1 acquisitions, prior acquisitions or any other future acquisition or investment could be inaccurate. We may become involved in litigation that could materially adversely affect our business financial condition and/or results of operations. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Failure to successfully defend against these claims could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We may experience difficulties integrating S1’s businesses, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Achieving the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisition of S1 will depend in part upon whether we are able to integrate the businesses of the two companies in an effective and efficient manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. The integration of certain operations will take time and will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from our routine business. Any delay or inability of management to successfully integrate the operations of the two companies could compromise our potential to achieve the anticipated long-term strategic benefits of the acquisition and could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our stock after the acquisition. Our revenue and earnings are highly cyclical, our quarterly results fluctuate significantly and we have revenue-generating transactions concentrated in the final weeks of a quarter which may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and earnings are highly cyclical causing significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. Revenue and operating results are usually strongest during the third and fourth fiscal quarters ending September 30 and December 31 primarily due to the sales and budgetary cycles of our customers. We experience lower revenues, and possible operating losses, in the first and second quarters ending March 31 and June 30. Our financial results may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, including changes in product sales mix that affect average selling prices; and the timing of customer renewals (any of which may impact the pattern of revenue recognition). In addition, large portions of our customer contracts are consummated in the final weeks of each quarter. Before these contracts are consummated, we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance. Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time. Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price. Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. Prices on the global financial markets for equity securities declined precipitously since September 2008. No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and past performance may not accurately predict future performance. Any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in our stock price. Our stock price may also be volatile, in part, due to external factors such as announcements by third parties or competitors, inherent volatility in the technology sector, variability in demand from our existing customers, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, the level of our operating expenses and changing market conditions in the software industry. In addition, the financial markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies and financial services companies, and these fluctuations sometimes are unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 