Item 1A. Risk Factors The recent general economic conditions and the disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact consumer spending patterns and the availability and cost of credit. The disruptions in the financial markets have had an adverse effect on the economy, which have negatively impacted consumer spending patterns. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy has reduced the frequency with which customers choose to dine out and/or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing revenues and adversely impacting our operating results. A continuing adverse impact of decreasing revenues and operating results may also impact our ability to comply with covenants contained in our credit agreement. The disruptions in the financial markets and continuing economic downturn may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase the availability of credit. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants or where we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with similar concepts. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets will prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and will result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that may develop in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Failure of our restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and performance results. Performance results currently achieved by our restaurants may not be indicative of longer-term performance and are impacted by conditions in the geographic markets where we operate. We currently have a significant number of RA Sushi and Benihana restaurants in the Arizona, Southern California, South Florida and Nevada markets. Additionally, we cannot be assured that new restaurants that we open will have similar operating results as existing restaurants. New restaurants take several months to reach expected operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as anticipated could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 6 Changes in food costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Any increase in distribution and commodity costs could cause our food costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control through our supply chain, including energy costs, adverse weather conditions and governmental regulation may affect our food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Many restaurants are located in states where the minimum wage was recently increased. There likely will be additional increases implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Additionally, the United States Congress enacted an increase in the federal minimum wage to be implemented in three stages: from $5.15 to $5.85 on July 24, 2007; from $5.85 to $6.55 on July 24, 2008; and from $6.55 to $7.25 on July 24, 2009. State and federal minimum wage increases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance (workers compensation insurance, general liability insurance, property insurance, health insurance and directors and officers liability insurance) may increase at any time. These increases, as well as potential federal or state legislation requirements for employers to provide health insurance to employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we are not able to negate the effect of these increases with plan modifications and cost control measures or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers compensation and health care costs and unfavorable changes in trends could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Fluctuations in operating results may cause profitability to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: ● general economic conditions; ● consumer confidence in the economy; ● changes in consumer preferences; ● competitive factors; ● weather conditions; ● timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; ● timing and duration of temporary restaurant closures; ● changes in governmental regulations; ● revenues contributed by new restaurants; and ● increases or decreases in comparable restaurant revenues. In particular, operating results with respect to new restaurant openings may significantly fluctuate because we typically incur the most significant portion of restaurant opening expenses associated with a given restaurant within the three months immediately preceding and the month of the opening of the restaurant. Our experience to date has been that labor and operating costs associated with a newly opened restaurant for the first several months of operation are materially greater than what can be expected after that time, both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Accordingly, the volume and timing of new restaurant openings has had, and is expected to continue to have, a meaningful impact on restaurant opening expenses as well as labor and operating costs. Numerous challenges to continued growth could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to expand profitably will depend on a number of factors, including: ● identification and availability of suitable locations; ● competition for restaurant sites; ● negotiation of favorable lease arrangements; ● timely development of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; ● management of the costs of construction and development of new restaurants; ● securing required governmental approvals and permits; ● recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly managers and chefs; ● competition in new markets; and ● general economic conditions. The opening of additional restaurants in the future will depend in part upon our ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain sufficient equity or debt financing on favorable terms to support our expansion. We may not be able to open our planned new operations on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 7 The inability to construct new restaurants within projected budgets and time periods will adversely affect our business and financial condition. Many factors may affect the costs associated with construction of new restaurants, including: ● landlord delays; ● labor disputes; ● shortages of materials and skilled labor; ● weather interference; ● unforeseen engineering problems; ● environmental problems; ● construction or zoning problems; ● local government regulations; ● modifications in design to the size and scope of the projects; and ● other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. If we are not able to develop additional restaurants within anticipated budgets or time periods, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our inability to find a sufficient number of qualified teppanyaki and sushi chefs could negatively impact our expansion plans. The success of our growth strategy is dependant on hiring and training a sufficient number of qualified teppanyaki and sushi chefs. The teppanyaki chefs are the centerpiece of the experience at the Benihana restaurants where customers go to be entertained by the chef’s performance at their table. Sushi chefs must possess the skills necessary for artfully preparing fresh sushi at each of our three concepts. Our inability to identify and hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals for these positions could have a direct negative impact on our ability to open new restaurants. Implementing our growth strategies may strain our management resources and negatively impact our competitive position. Our growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources. We must maintain a high level of quality and service at our existing and future restaurants, continue to enhance our operational, financial and management capabilities and locate, hire, train and retain experienced and dedicated operating personnel, particularly restaurant managers and chefs. We may not be able to effectively manage these and other factors necessary to permit us to achieve our expansion objectives and any failure to do so could negatively impact our competitive position. Potential labor shortages may delay planned openings or damage customer relations. Our success will continue to be dependent on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, chefs, kitchen staff and wait staff to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in certain areas. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants while high employee turnover in existing restaurants may negatively impact customer service and customer relations resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on retaining key operating officers and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional managers, general managers and executive and sushi chefs to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Individuals of this caliber may be in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to effectively penetrate new markets. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other concerns related to visits to our restaurants. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from these allegations regardless of whether these allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We may be subject to complaints or allegations from current, former or prospective employees. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from our shareholders. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. While we carry general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain this insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. 8 We are currently involved in legal proceedings, including, but not limited to the following matter: We are in a dispute with the former holders of the balance of Haru’s equity (the “minority stockholders”) concerning the amount owed by us to the former minority stockholders in payment for shares in the subsidiary, which the former minority stockholders elected to sell to us. The results of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, and an unfavorable resolution could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to: ● the environment; ● building construction; ● zoning requirements; ● the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; and ● employment. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The construction and remodeling of restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and work authorization requirements. In particular, we are subject to federal immigration regulations. Given the location of many of our restaurants, even if we operate those restaurants in strict compliance with federal immigration requirements, our employees may not all meet federal work authorization or residency requirements, which could lead to disruptions in our work force. Our business can be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from, among other things, complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Unfavorable publicity could negatively impact public perception of our brands. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”) prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the ADA and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of disabled persons in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with existing and new regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. This investment required to comply with these changing regulations may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 9 Market forces may have an exaggerated effect on the price of our stock and as a result, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price paid. Market forces may have an exaggerated effect on the volatility of our stock as a result of, but not limited to, the following factors: we have two significant shareholders (Benihana of Tokyo, Inc. and BFC Financial Corporation), a limited float and low average daily trading volume. The limited float may result in illiquidity as investors try to buy and sell, thereby exacerbating positive or negative pressure on our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 