Item 1A. Risk Factors Continued weakness in general economic conditions and the continued disruptions in the global credit and equity markets may adversely impact consumer spending patterns and the availability and cost of credit. The continued disruptions in the global credit and equity markets and weak general economic conditions have had an adverse effect on the economy, which have negatively impacted consumer spending patterns. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy has reduced the frequency with which guests choose to dine out and/or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing revenues and adversely impacting our operating results. A continuing adverse impact of decreasing revenues and operating results may also impact our ability to comply with covenants contained in our credit agreement. The continued disruptions in the financial markets and continuing economic downturn may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future. In addition, if gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase with any future increase in interest rates, additional pressure on consumer disposable income will likely occur. While the government has recently taken unprecedented steps to stimulate the economy and, at the same time, maintain relatively low interest rate levels, there can be no assurance that the government’s actions will be successful in restoring consumer confidence, further stabilizing the financial markets, further increasing liquidity and the availability of credit and result in lower unemployment or keep interest rates low in the future. 6 Intense competition in the restaurant industry could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location and many restaurants compete with us at each of our locations. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants or where we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with similar concepts. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants in our markets will prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and will result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or concepts that may develop in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. Failure of our restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and performance results. Performance results currently achieved by our existing restaurants vary and the better performing restaurants may not be indicative of longer-term performance and are impacted by conditions in the geographic markets where we operate. We currently have 42% of our restaurants in the economically challenged states of Arizona, California, Florida and Nevada markets. Additionally, we cannot be assured that new restaurants that we open or acquire will have better or equal operating results as existing restaurants. New restaurants take several months to reach expected operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, inability to hire sufficient staff and other factors. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to perform as anticipated could have an adverse effect on ou r business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in food and supply costs could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Any increase in distribution and commodity costs could cause our food and supply costs to fluctuate. Additional factors beyond our control through our supply chain, including energy costs, adverse weather conditions, environmental incidents and governmental regulation may affect our food costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food and supply costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The overall cost environment for food commodities in general has and may continue to be volatile primarily due to domestic and worldwide agricultural, supply/demand and other macroeconomic factors that are outside of our control. Commodity prices for key agricultural commodities such as corn, wheat, and soybeans have been extremely volatile. The availabilities and prices of food commodities are also influenced by increased energy prices, animal-related diseases, natural disasters, increased geo-political tensions, the relationship of the dollar to other currencies, and other issues. Virtually all commodities purchased and used in the restaurant industry — meats, grains, oils, dairy products, and energy — have varying amounts of inherent price volatility associated with them. Our suppliers also may be affected by higher cost s to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their guests, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. While we attempt to manage these factors by offering a diversified menu and by contracting for our key commodities for extended periods of time whenever feasible and possible, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this respect due to the many factors that are outside of our control. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Many restaurants are located in states where the minimum wage was recently increased. There likely will be additional increases implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. State and federal minimum wage increases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance (workers compensation insurance, general liability insurance, property insurance, health insurance and directors and officers liability insurance) may increase at any time. These increases, as well as potential state legislation and the newly-enacted “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act”, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we are not able to negate the effect of these increases with plan modifications and cost control measures or by continuing to improve our operating efficiencies. We self-insure a substantial portion of our workers compensation and health care costs and potential unfavorable changes resulting from the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act could have an adverse effect on our business, fina ncial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Fluctuations in operating results may cause profitability to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: ● general economic conditions; ● consumer confidence in the economy; ● changes in consumer preferences; ● competitive factors; 7 ● weather conditions; ● timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; ● training and experience of local store management and personnel; ● timing and duration of temporary restaurant closures; ● changes in governmental regulations; ● revenues contributed by new restaurants; and ● increases or decreases in comparable restaurant revenues. In particular, operating results with respect to new restaurant openings may significantly fluctuate because we typically incur the most significant portion of restaurant opening expenses associated with a given restaurant within the three months immediately preceding and the month of the opening of the restaurant. Our experience to date has been that labor and operating costs associated with a newly opened restaurant for the first several months of operation are materially greater than what can be expected after that time, both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Accordingly, the volume and timing of new restaurant openings has had, and is expected to continue to have, a meaningful impact on restaurant opening expenses as well as labor and operating costs. Numerous challenges to continued growth could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to expand profitably will depend on a number of factors, including: ● identification and availability of suitable locations; ● competition for restaurant sites; ● negotiation of favorable lease arrangements; ● timely development of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; ● management of the costs of construction and development of new restaurants; ● securing required governmental approvals and permits; ● recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly local store managers and chefs; ● competition in new markets; and ● general economic conditions. We may not be able to open our planned new operations on a timely basis, if at all, and, if opened, these restaurants may not be operated profitably. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, delays in restaurant openings from time to time. Delays or failures in opening planned new restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Access to sources of capital and our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could adversely affect our business. Our ability to grow our business depends, in part, on the availability of adequate capital to finance the development of new restaurants and other growth-related expenses. No assurances can be given as to our ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain sufficient equity or debt financing on favorable terms to support our expansion. Changes in our operating plans, expansion plans, lower than anticipated revenues, unanticipated and/or uncontrollable events in the capital or credit markets that impact our liquidity, increased expenses or other events, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis in the event our cash flow from operations is insufficient. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or a t all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could adversely affect our growth and other plans, as well as our financial condition. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants and financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. In addition, continued disruptions in the global credit and equity markets, including unanticipated and/or uncontrollable events in the capital or credit markets, may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to raise additional capital if and when required. We may issue additional equity securities without the consent of shareholders and such issuances could adversely affect our stock price and the rights of existing shareholders. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the shareholders. The board of directors also has the discretion, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue additional preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue additional preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common shareholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 8 The inability to construct new restaurants within projected budgets and time periods will adversely affect our business and financial condition. Many factors may affect the costs associated with construction of new restaurants, including: ● landlord delays; ● labor disputes; ● shortages of materials and skilled labor; ● weather interference; ● unforeseen engineering problems; ● environmental problems; ● construction or zoning problems; ● local government regulations; ● modifications in design to the size and scope of the projects; and ● other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. If we are not able to develop additional restaurants within anticipated budgets or time periods, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our inability to renew existing leases on favorable terms may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our restaurants are located on leased premises and are subject to varying lease-specific arrangements. For example, some of the leases require base rent, subject to regional cost-of-living increases, and other leases include base rent with specified periodic increases. Other leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial increases. Additionally, many leases require contingent rent based on a percentage of gross sales. While we currently expect to pursue the renewal of substantially all of our expiring restaurant leases, no guarantee can be given that such leases will be renewed or, if renewed, that rents will not increase substantially. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their leased locations. As demographic and economic patterns change, current leased locations may or may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in trade areas where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in surrounding areas could result in reduced revenues in those locations. In addition, desirable leased locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation. Prolonged sluggish economic conditions, high unemployment and further deterioration in general economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or on businesses neighboring our locations, which could adversely affect our business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could result in our landlords being unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements which could result in their failure to satisfy obligations to us under leases, including failures to fund or reimburse agreed-upon tenant improvement allowances. Any such failure could adversely impact our operations. Our inability to find a sufficient number of qualified teppanyaki and sushi chefs could negatively impact our expansion plans. The success of our growth strategy is dependant on hiring and training a sufficient number of qualified teppanyaki and sushi chefs. The teppanyaki chefs are the centerpiece of the experience at the Benihana restaurants where guests go to be entertained by the chef’s performance at their table. Sushi chefs must possess the skills necessary for artfully preparing fresh sushi at each of our three concepts. Our inability to identify and hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals for these positions could have a direct negative impact on our ability to open new restaurants. Implementing our growth strategies may strain our management resources and negatively impact our competitive position. Our growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources. We must maintain a high level of quality and service at our existing and future restaurants, continue to enhance our operational, financial and management capabilities and locate, hire, train and retain experienced and dedicated operating personnel, particularly restaurant managers and chefs. We may not be able to effectively manage these and other factors necessary to permit us to achieve our expansion objectives and any failure to do so could negatively impact our competitive position. Potential labor shortages may delay planned openings or damage guest relations. Our success will continue to be dependent on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, chefs, kitchen staff and wait staff to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in certain areas. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants while high employee turnover in existing restaurants may negatively impact guest service and guest relations resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 9 Our inability to retain key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success will continue to be highly dependent on retaining key operating officers and employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional managers, general managers and executive and sushi chefs to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Individuals of this caliber may be in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to effectively penetrate new markets. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other concerns related to visits to our restaurants. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from these allegations regardless of whether these allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We may be subject to complaints or allegations from current, former or prospective employees. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from our shareholders. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. While we carry general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain this insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to: ● the environment; ● building construction; ● zoning requirements; ● the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; and ● employment and benefits. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The construction and remodeling of restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and work authorization requirements. In particular, we are subject to federal immigration regulations. Given the location of many of our restaurants, even if we operate those restaurants in strict compliance with federal immigration requirements, our employees may not all meet federal work authorization or residency requirements, which could lead to disruptions in our work force. Our business can be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from, among other things, complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Unfavorable publicity could negatively impact public perception of our brands. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”) prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the ADA and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of disabled persons in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities. We are currently evaluating the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on our business. Federal and state governments may propose other health care initiatives and revisions to the health care and health insurance systems. It is uncertain what legislative programs, if any will be adopted in the future, or what action Congress or state legislatures may take regarding other health care reform proposals or legislation. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 10 Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported results of operations. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Should we identify a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate any future material weaknesses that may be identified in a timely manner or m aintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Market forces may have an exaggerated effect on the price of our stock and as a result, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price paid. Market forces may have an exaggerated effect on the volatility of our stock as a result of, but not limited to, the following factors: we have two significant shareholders (Benihana of Tokyo, Inc. and BFC Financial Corporation), a limited float and low average daily trading volume. The limited float may result in illiquidity as investors try to buy and sell, thereby exacerbating positive or negative pressure on our stock. We plan to outsource the processing of certain accounting transactions to a third-party vendor that may subject us to risks, including disruptions in business. We are planning to outsource the processing of certain accounting transactions that are dependent on technology to a third party. We are making a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are obligated to observe proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services, as well as issues related to the data conversion from our systems to the third party's technology could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or ability to accomplish our financial and management reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 