ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Continuing Uncertainty in General Economic Conditions and Fluctuations in the Global Credit and Equity Markets Have Adversely Affected Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both in the U.S. and globally. Due to the continued concerns regarding the availability of credit, our current or potential customers may delay or reduce purchases of our products which may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and therefore harm our business and results of operations. The continuing uncertainty in the credit markets is likely to continue to have an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economies, which could continue to negatively impact the spending patterns of businesses including our current and potential customers. Historically, our business cycles have corresponded to changes in the global Purchasing Managers Index (“PMI”). From June 2008 to July 2009, this index indicated a contracting industrial economy. Starting in August 2009, the index has had readings above 50 which are indicative of expansion in the industrial global economy; however, we continue to believe there is still a substantial amount of uncertainty about the global industrial economy. We are unable to predict whether the current expansion cycle, as measured by the PMI, will be sustained throughout 2010. This continuing uncertainty in the global industrial economy is likely to continue to have an adverse effect on the spending patterns of businesses including our current and potential customers which could adversely affect our revenues and therefore harm our business and result of operations. Concentrations of Credit Risk and Negative Conditions in the Global Financial Markets May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Result of Operations. By virtue of our holdings of investment securities and foreign currency derivatives, we have exposure to many different counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks and investment banks. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default of our counterparties. We have policies relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties, which are designed to mitigate credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets as a result of defaults by our counterparties, would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Negative Conditions in the Global Credit Markets Have Impaired the Liquidity of a Portion of Our Investment Portfolio. Our short-term investments include auction rate securities backed by education loan revenue bonds. One of our auction rate securities is from the Vermont Student Assistance Corporation and has a par value of $2.2 million. The other of our auction rate securities is from the New Hampshire Health and Education Facilities Authority and has a par value of $6.4 million. On January 15, 2010, and in prior auction periods beginning in February 2008, the auction process for these securities failed. These auction rate securities are classified as available-for-sale. The auction rate market is not expected to provide liquidity for these securities in the foreseeable future. Should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities prior to their maturity or prior to our exercise period under our Rights agreement with UBS, we may be unable to find a buyer in a secondary market outside the auction process or if a buyer in a secondary market is found, we would likely realize a loss. See Note 3 – Fair value measurements in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our auction rate securities. We Have Established a Budget and Variations From Our Budget Will Affect Our Financial Results. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we established an operating budget for 2010. Our budgets are established based on the estimated revenue from sales of our products which are based on economic conditions in the markets in which we do business as well as the timing and volume of our new products and the expected penetration of both new and existing products in the marketplace. Historically, our business cycles have corresponded to changes in the global PMI. From June 2008 to July 2009, this index had indicated a contracting industrial economy. Starting in August 2009, the index has had readings above 50 which are indicative of expansion in the industrial global economy. We believe there is still a substantial amount of uncertainty about the global industrial economy. We are unable to predict whether the current expansion cycle, as measured by the PMI, will be sustained throughout 2010. This uncertainty as well as the uncertainty as to how our business will be impacted by any future expansion or contraction in the global industrial economy, makes forecasting our results difficult. This uncertainty is reflected in key assumptions used to establish our 2010 budget. If demand for our products in 2010 is less than the demand we have anticipated in setting our 2010 budget, our operating results could be negatively impacted. If we exceed the level of expenses established in our 2010 operating budget or if we cannot reduce budgeted expenditures in response to a decreases in revenue, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our spending could exceed our budgets due to a number of factors, including: · additional marketing costs for new product introductions and/or for conferences and tradeshows; · increased costs from hiring more product development engineers or other personnel; · additional costs associated with our incremental investment in our field sales force; · additional costs associated with the expiration of temporary cost cutting measures, such as salary reductions, implemented in 2009; · increased manufacturing costs resulting from component supply shortages and/or component price fluctuations; · increased component costs resulting from vendors increasing prices in response to increased economic activity; · additional expenses related to intellectual property litigation; and/or · additional costs related to acquisitions, if any. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Centralization of Inventory and Distribution. Currently, shipments to our customers worldwide are primarily sourced from our warehouse facility in Debrecen, Hungary. Shipments to some of our customers in Asia are currently made either out of local inventory managed by our branch operations in various Asian countries or from a centralized distribution point in Singapore. We will continue to devote resources to centralizing our distribution to a limited number of shipping points. Our planned centralization of inventory and distribution from a limited number of shipping points is subject to inherent risks, including: · burdens of complying with additional and/or more complex VAT and customs regulations; and, · severe concentration of inventory increasing the risks associated with fire, natural disasters and logistics disruptions to customer order fulfillment. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. Any difficulties with the centralization of distribution or delays in the implementation of the systems or processes to support this centralized distribution could result in interruption of our normal operations, including our ability to process orders and ship products to our customers. Any failure or delay in distribution from our facility in Hungary could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A Substantial Majority of Our Manufacturing Capacity is Located in Hungary. Our Hungarian manufacturing and warehouse facility sources a substantial majority of our sales. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we continued to maintain and enhance the systems and processes that support the direct shipment of product orders to our customers worldwide from our manufacturing facility in Hungary. In order to enable timely shipment of products to our customers we also maintain the vast majority of our inventory at our Hungary warehouse facility. In addition to being subject to the risks of maintaining such a concentration of manufacturing capacity and global inventory, this facility and its operation are also subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: · difficulty in managing manufacturing operations in a foreign country; · difficulty in achieving or maintaining product quality; · interruption to transportation flows for delivery of components to us and finished goods to our customers; · changes in the country’s political or economic conditions; and, · changes in the country’s tax laws. No assurance can be given that our efforts to mitigate these risks will be successful. Accordingly, a failure to deal with these factors could result in interruption in the facility’s operation or delays in expanding its capacity, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In response to significant and frequent changes in the corporate tax law, the unstable political environment, a restrictive labor code, the volatility of the Hungarian forint relative to the U.S. dollar and increasing labor costs, we have doubts as to the long term viability of Hungary as a location for our manufacturing and warehousing operations. As such, we may need to look for an alternative location for a substantial majority of our manufacturing and warehousing activities which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet current customer demands, our ability to grow our business as well as our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. Our long term manufacturing and warehousing capacity planning contemplates a third manufacturing and warehousing facility in Malaysia. Deployment of this facility could be accelerated in response to an unfavorable change in the corporate taxation, regulatory or economic environment in Hungary. We can give no assurance that we would be successful in accelerating the deployment of a new facility in Malaysia. Our failure to accelerate the deployment of our manufacturing and warehousing facility in Malaysia in response to unfavorable changes in the corporate taxation, regulatory or economic environment in Hungary, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet current customer demands, our ability to grow our business as well as our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. Our Income Tax Rate is Affected by Tax Benefits in Hungary. As a result of certain foreign investment incentives available under Hungarian law, the profit from our Hungarian operation was subject to a reduced income tax rate. This special tax status terminated on January 1, 2008, with the merger of our Hungarian manufacturing operations with its Hungarian parent company. The tax position of our Hungarian operation continued to benefit from assets created by the restructuring of our operations in Hungary. Realization of these assets was based on our estimated future earnings in Hungary. Partial release of the valuation allowance on these assets resulted in income tax benefits of $18.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. For the year 2009, we expected to recognize an additional tax benefit of $9.7 million related to these assets. Effective January 1, 2010, a new tax law in Hungary provides for an enhanced deduction for the qualified research and development expenses of NI Hungary Software and Hardware Manufacturing Kft. ("NI Hungary"). During the three months ended December 31, 2009, we obtained confirmation of the application of this new tax law for the qualified research and development expenses of NI Hungary. Based on the application of this new tax law to the qualified research and development expense of NI Hungary, we no longer expect to have sufficient future taxable income in Hungary to realize the benefits of these tax assets. As such, we recorded an income tax charge of $21.6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009, $18.4 million of which was related to a valuation allowance on the previously recognized assets created by the restructuring and $3.2 million of which was related to tax benefits from other assets that we will no longer be able to realize as a result of this change. We do not expect to realize the tax benefit of the remaining assets created by the restructuring and therefore we have a full valuation allowance of $98.2 million against those assets at December 31, 2009. Changes in Hungary’s political condition and/or tax laws could eliminate the enhanced tax deduction in the future. The reduction or elimination of this enhanced tax deduction in Hungary or future changes in U.S. law pertaining to taxation of foreign earnings could result in an increase in our future effective income tax rate which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We Rely on Management Information Systems and any Disruptions in Our Systems Would Adversely Affect Us. We rely on a primary global center for our management information systems and on multiple systems in branches not covered by our global center. As with any information system, unforeseen issues may arise that could affect our ability to receive adequate, accurate and timely financial information, which in turn could inhibit effective and timely decisions. Furthermore, it is possible that our global center for information systems or our branch operations could experience a complete or partial shutdown. If such a shutdown occurred, it could impact our product shipments and revenues, as order processing and product distribution are heavily dependent on our management information systems. Accordingly, our operating results in such periods would be adversely impacted. We are continually working to maintain reliable systems to control costs and improve our ability to deliver our products in our markets worldwide. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we continued to devote resources to the development of our systems for manufacturing, sales, product services and to the continued development of our web offerings. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with our systems. Difficulties with our systems may interrupt our normal operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. Any disruption occurring with these systems may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In 2010, we will focus on upgrading our Americas business application suite to Oracle’s version R12 and will continue to devote significant resources to the continued development of our web applications. Any failure to successfully implement these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Quarterly Results are Subject to Fluctuations Due to Various Factors. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: · changes in the economy or credit markets in the U.S. or globally; · changes in the mix of products sold; · the availability and pricing of components from third parties (especially limited sources); · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · the timing, cost or outcome of intellectual property litigation; · the difficulty in maintaining margins, including the higher margins traditionally achieved in international sales; and, · changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or suppliers. Our Revenues are Subject to Seasonal Variations. In previous years, our revenues have been characterized by seasonality, with revenues typically growing from the first quarter to the second quarter, being relatively constant from the second quarter to the third quarter, growing in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter and declining in the first quarter of the following from the fourth quarter of the preceding year. This historical trend has been affected and may continue to be affected in the future by declines in the global industrial economy, the economic impact of larger orders as well as the timing of new product introductions and/or acquisitions, if any. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a sequential decline in revenue from the third quarter of 2008 due to the severe contraction in the global industrial economy, which is contrary to the typical seasonality described above. In addition, our first quarter and second quarter of 2009 had sequential revenue declines from the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, respectively, and the magnitude of the decline in the first quarter of 2009 was greater than what has occurred in the past. We cannot predict when or if we will return to our typical historical revenue pattern. We believe the historical pattern of seasonality of our revenue results from the international mix of our revenue and the variability of the budgeting and purchasing cycles of our customers throughout each international region. In addition, our total operating expenses have in the past tended to increase in each successive quarter and have fluctuated as a percentage of revenue based on the seasonality of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we were able to reduce our operating costs compared to 2008. Some of the cost cutting measures implemented in 2009, such as salary reduction, may not be available to us in 2010. We cannot provide any assurance that the cost cutting measures implemented in 2009 can be sustained in 2010 as we plan to continue our strategic investments in research and development and field sales while limiting expense growth elsewhere. We Operate in Intensely Competitive Markets. The markets in which we operate are characterized by intense competition from numerous competitors, some of which are divisions of large corporations having far greater resources than we have, and we may face further competition from new market entrants in the future. A key competitor is Agilent Technologies Inc. (“Agilent”). Agilent offers hardware and software products that provide solutions that directly compete with our virtual instrumentation products. Agilent is aggressively advertising and marketing products that are competitive with our products. Because of Agilent’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: · new product introductions by competitors; · product pricing; · the impact of foreign exchange rates on product pricing; · quality and performance; · success in developing new products; · adequate manufacturing capacity and supply of components and materials; · efficiency of manufacturing operations; · effectiveness of sales and marketing resources and strategies; · strategic relationships with other suppliers; · timing of our new product introductions; · protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; · the outcome of any material intellectual property litigation; · the financial strength of our competitors; · barriers to entry imposed by competitors with significant market power in new markets; · general market and economic conditions; and, · government actions throughout the world. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries. Sales of our products are dependent on customers in certain industries, particularly the telecommunications, semiconductor, automotive, automated test equipment, defense and aerospace industries. As we have experienced in the past, and as we may continue to experience in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries have resulted and may continue to result in decreased sales, and a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Success Depends on New Product Introductions and Market Acceptance of Our Products. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new product introductions, and is therefore highly dependent upon timely product innovation. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis to replace declining revenues from older products, and on increasing penetration in domestic and international markets. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, we have experienced significant delays between the announcement and the commercial availability of new products. Any significant delay in releasing new products could have a material adverse effect on the ultimate success of a product and other related products and could impede continued sales of predecessor products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to introduce new products in accordance with announced release dates, that new products will achieve market acceptance or that any such acceptance will be sustained for any significant period. Failure of our new products to achieve or sustain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our efforts to increase foreign market penetration. Our Business is Dependent on Key Suppliers. Our manufacturing processes use large volumes of high-quality components and subassemblies supplied by outside sources. Several of these components are available through limited sources. Limited source components purchased include custom application specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”), chassis and other components. We have in the past experienced delays and quality problems in connection with limited source components, and there can be no assurance that these problems will not recur in the future. Accordingly, our failure to receive components from limited suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. In the event that any of our limited suppliers experience significant financial or operational difficulties due to adverse global economic conditions or otherwise, our business and operating results would likely be adversely impacted until we are able to secure another source for the required materials. We May Experience Component Shortages. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, supply shortages of components used in our products, including limited source components, can result in significant additional costs and inefficiencies in manufacturing. If we are unsuccessful in resolving any such component shortages in a timely manner, we will experience a significant impact on the timing of revenue, a possible loss of revenue, and/or an increase in manufacturing costs, any of which would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Web Site. We devote resources to maintain our Web site as a key marketing, sales and support tool and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our attempt to leverage the Web to increase sales. We host our Web site internally. Any failure to successfully maintain our Web site or any significant downtime or outages affecting our Web site could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our Products are Complex and May Contain Bugs or Errors. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, our new software products or new operating systems of third parties on which our products are based often contain bugs or errors that can result in reduced sales and/or cause our support costs to increase, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We are Subject to Various Risks Associated with International Operations and Foreign Economies. Our international sales are subject to inherent risks, including: · fluctuations in local economies; · fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in the repatriation of earnings; and, · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any violation of foreign or U.S. laws by our employees, contractors or agents, even if such violation is prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must also comply with various import and export regulations. The application of these various regulations depends on the classification of our products which can change over time as such regulations are modified or interpreted. As a result, even if we are currently in compliance with applicable regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not have to incur additional costs or take additional compliance actions in the future. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and/or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, the regulatory environment in some countries is very restrictive as their governments try to protect their local economy and value of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. Sales made by our international direct sales offices are denominated in local currencies, and accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent of these sales is affected by changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Net of hedging results, the change in exchange rates had the effect of decreasing our consolidated sales by $29 million or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 2008. If the local currencies in which we sell our products strengthen against the U.S. dollar, we may need to lower our prices in the local currency to remain competitive in our international markets which could have a material adverse effect on our gross and net profit margins. If the local currencies in which we sell our products weaken against the U.S. dollar and if the local sales prices cannot be raised due to competitive pressures, we will experience a deterioration of our gross and net profit margins. Since most of our international operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the change in exchange rates had the effect of decreasing our operating expenses by $12 million or 2% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 2008. Currently, we are experiencing significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in many of the markets in which we do business. This has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments and on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent revenues and expenses. In the past, these dynamics have also adversely affected our revenue growth in international markets and will likely pose similar challenges in the future. Our Business Depends on Our Proprietary Rights and We are Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation. Our success depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights relative to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may have in the past infringed or violated certain of our intellectual property rights. We from time to time engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In monitoring and policing our intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required to spend significant resources. We from time to time may be notified that we are infringing certain patent or intellectual property rights of others. There can be no assurance that any existing intellectual property litigation or any intellectual property litigation initiated in the future, will not cause significant litigation expense, liability, injunction against the sale of some of our products, and a diversion of management’s attention, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Reported Financial Results May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Compliance With Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is Costly and Challenging. As required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, this Form 10-K contains our managements’ certification of adequate disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2009. This report on Form 10-K also contains a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. This Form 10-K also contains an attestation and report by our external auditors with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While these assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, compliance with Sections 302 and 404 is required for each future fiscal year end. We expect that the ongoing compliance with Sections 302 and 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. Any adverse results from such ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our Business Depends on the Continued Service of Key Management and Technical Personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, sales, marketing, research and development and operational personnel, including Dr. Truchard, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management and key technical personnel. We have no agreements providing for the employment of any of our key employees for any fixed term and our key employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees. Our failure to attract or retain key technical or managerial talent could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We also recruit and employ foreign nationals to achieve our hiring goals primarily for engineering and software positions. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to recruit foreign nationals at the current rate. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our existing key personnel or attracting and retaining additional key personnel. Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Manufacturing Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs. We must comply with many different governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing operations in the U.S. and in Hungary. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. We Are Subject to the Risk of Product Liability Claims. Our products are designed to provide information upon which users may rely. Our products are also used in “real time” applications requiring extremely rapid and continuous processing and constant feedback. Such applications give rise to the risk that a failure or interruption of the system or application could result in economic damage or bodily harm. We attempt to assure the quality and accuracy of the processes contained in our products, and to limit our product liability exposure through contractual limitations on liability, limited warranties, express disclaimers and warnings as well as disclaimers contained in our “shrink wrap” license agreements with end-users. If our products contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes, customer acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Further, we could be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Although we maintain liability insurance for product liability matters, there can be no assurance that such insurance or the contractual limitations used by us to limit our liability will be sufficient to cover or limit any claims which may occur. Our Acquisitions are Subject to a Number of Related Costs and Challenges. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions generally require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Some of the existing products previously sold by some of the entities we have acquired are of lesser quality than our products and/or could contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes that could subject us to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction. Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay or Prevent an Acquisition of Us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors, prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, prohibition of stockholders to call special meetings and the requirement that the holders of at least 80% of our shares approve any business combination not otherwise approved by two-thirds of the Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Our Board of Directors adopted a stockholders rights plan on January 21, 2004, pursuant to which we declared a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock outstanding as of May 10, 2004. This rights plan replaced a similar rights plan that had been in effect since our initial public offering in 1995. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise thereof shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to twice the then-current exercise price of the right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 