Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the registrant for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 10, 2011 (the “Proxy Statement”). PART I This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements contained herein regarding our future financial performance or operations (including, without limitation, statements to the effect that we “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “may,” “will,” “project,” “continue,” or “estimate” or other variations thereof or comparable terminology or the negative thereof) should be considered forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors including those set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” beginning on page 12,and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. BUSINESS National Instruments Corporation (“we”, “us” or “our”) is a leading supplier of products that engineers and scientists use in a wide range of industries. These industries comprise a large and diverse market for design, control and test applications. We provide graphical application software and modular hardware that users combine with industry-standard computers, networks and third-party devices to create measurement, automation and embedded systems. Our approach gives customers the ability to quickly and cost-effectively design, prototype and deploy unique custom-defined solutions for their design, control and test application needs. We are based in Austin, Texas and were incorporated under the laws of the State of Texas in May 1976 and were reincorporated in Delaware in June 1994. On March 13, 1995, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock. Our common stock, $0.01 par value, is quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the trading symbol NATI. Our Internet website address is http://www.ni.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T are available through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC, or upon written request without charge. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Background Engineers and scientists have long used instruments to observe, better understand and manage the real-world phenomena, events and processes related to their industries or areas of expertise. Instruments measure and control electrical signals, such as voltage, current and power, as well as physical phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, speed, flow, volume, torque and vibration. Common general-purpose instruments include voltmeters, signal generators, oscilloscopes, data loggers, spectrum analyzers, cameras, and temperature and pressure monitors and controllers. Some traditional instruments are also highly application specific, designed with fixed functionality to measure specific signals for particular vertical industries or applications. Instruments used for industrial automation applications include data loggers, strip chart recorders, programmable logic controllers (“PLCs”), and proprietary turn-key devices and/or systems designed to automate specific vertical applications. Measurement and control functionality is also used in a variety of embedded and/or real-time applications, such as machine monitoring, machine control, and embedded design and prototyping. Measurement and automation applications can be generally categorized as either test and measurement (“T&M”) or industrial/embedded. T&M applications generally involve testing during the research, design, manufacture and service of a wide variety of products. Industrial/embedded applications generally involve designing, prototyping and deploying the machinery and processes used in the production and distribution of a wide variety of products and materials. Instruments and systems for design, control, and test applications have historically shared common limitations, including fixed vendor-defined functionality; proprietary closed architectures that were generally difficult to program and integrate with other systems; and inflexible operator interfaces that were usually cumbersome to operate and change. Proprietary instrumentation systems have traditionally been very expensive, with industrial/embedded system prices ranging as high as several million dollars and T&M instrumentation system prices often ranging in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. In addition, the limitations on the programmability of traditional systems means that adapting these systems to changing requirements can be both expensive and time consuming, and users are often required to purchase multiple single-purpose instruments. Our Approach to Measurement and Automation Whether using T&M instrumentation or Industrial/Embedded (“IE”) systems, we offer an innovative and highly productive approach to meet unique application needs. Our approach is called Graphical System Design and we believe it provides significant advantages and differentiation in size, complexity, and cost from traditional approaches to test and measurement and industrial embedded. Graphical System Design combines graphical based programming software with modular hardware, leveraging the latest technologies such as multi-core processors and Field Programmable Gate Arrays (“FPGAs”). The software helps integrate the various components of a system, while enabling engineers to customize the system hardware for their specific application. Using software to graphically represent functions, scientists and engineers who are not software programming experts but instead are experts in their specific field, discipline and/or domain, can now create highly functional and high performance computer based systems. When used to develop T&M systems, our Graphical System Design approach results in virtual instrumentation. A virtual instrument is a user-defined measurement and automation system that consists of an industry standard computer (which may be a mainstream general-purpose computer, workstation, handheld device, or rugged versions of these) equipped with our graphical application software and cost effective modular hardware. Virtual instrumentation represents a fundamental shift from traditional fixed function hardware-centered instrumentation systems to software-centered systems that leverage the computational, display, productivity and connectivity capabilities of computers, networks and the Internet. Because virtual instruments leverage these capabilities, scientists and engineers can define and change the functionality of their instruments, rather than being restricted by fixed-functions imposed by traditional instrument and automation vendors. Our products empower scientists and engineers to monitor and control traditional instruments and create innovative computer-based systems that can replace traditional instruments at a lower cost, and to develop systems that integrate measurement functionality together with industrial and embedded capabilities. We believe that giving scientists and engineers flexibility to create their own custom virtual instruments improves their productivity across a wide variety of applications. When used in IE applications, the Graphical System Design approach creates embedded systems. While embedded systems have been developed by embedded development experts for years, our Graphical System Design approach now empowers non-embedded experts to quickly design, prototype and deploy powerful systems. In this case, the Graphical System Design approach combines open graphical programming software with modular hardware, leveraging the latest technologies to dramatically simplify development, resulting in higher-quality embedded designs which have a migration path to custom design. This allows domain experts, or non-embedded experts, to perform embedded design where they would traditionally have needed to outsource this task to an embedded design expert. The resulting systems range across a wide variety of application areas. Compared with traditional solutions, we believe our products and the Graphical System Design approach provide the following significant customer benefits: Performance, Ease of Use and Efficiency Our software brings the power and ease of use of commercial computers, handheld devices, networks and the Internet to instrumentation and embedded devices. With features such as graphical programming, automatic code generation, graphical tools libraries, ready-to-use example programs, libraries of specific instrumentation functions, and the ability to deploy their applications on a range of platforms, scientists and engineers can quickly build a system that meets their individual application needs. In addition, the continuous performance improvement of PC, Field Programmable Gate Arrays (“FPGA”) and networking technologies, which are the core platforms for our approach, results in direct performance benefits for scientists and engineers in the form of faster execution for measurement and automation applications, resulting in shorter test times, faster automation, higher performance embedded systems and higher manufacturing throughput. Modularity, Reusability and Reconfigurability Our products include reusable hardware and software modules that have highly effective interoperation. This delivers considerable flexibility in configuring systems. This ability to reuse and reconfigure measurement and automation systems allows users to reduce development time and improve efficiency by eliminating duplicated programming efforts and to quickly adapt their systems to new and changing needs. In addition, these features help protect both hardware and software investments against obsolescence. Lower Total Solution Cost We believe that our products and solutions offer price/performance and energy efficiency advantages over traditional solutions. Graphical System Design equips cost effective and powerful industry standard computers, workstations, portable handheld devices, and rugged versions of these with modular and reusable application software, cost-effective hardware and driver software to perform functions that would otherwise require costly, proprietary systems. In addition, these systems give users the flexibility and portability to adapt to changing needs, whereas traditional closed systems are both expensive and time consuming to adapt, if adaptable at all. Products, Technology and Services We offer an extensive line of measurement and automation products that empower engineers and scientists to more efficiently create automated test, industrial control, and embedded design applications. Our products consist of off-the-shelf application software and modular, cost-effective hardware components together with related driver software. We design our products to work either separately, as stand-alone products or as an integrated solution; however, customers generally purchase our software and hardware together. We believe that the flexibility, functionality and ease of use of our application software promotes sales of our other software and hardware products. Application Software For more than 20 years, we have pioneered measurement and automation application software for virtual instrumentation and Graphical System Design, which we believe plays an increasingly important role in the development of systems for test, control, and design applications. Our application software products leverage the increasing capability of computers, FPGAs, networks and the Internet for data analysis, connectivity and presentation power to bring increasing efficiency and precision to measurement and automation applications. Our application software products include LabVIEW, LabVIEW Real-Time, LabVIEW FPGA, Measurement Studio, LabWindows/CVI, DIAdem, NI TestStand, NI VeriStand, and Multisim. Our application software products are integrated with our hardware/driver software. We offer a variety of software products for developing test, control, and design applications to meet our customer’s programming and computer preferences. LabVIEW, LabWindows/CVI, and Measurement Studio are programming environments where scientists and engineers can design, prototype, and deploy systems. With these software products, users can design custom virtual instruments by creating a graphical user interface (“GUI”) on the computer screen through which they operate the actual program and control selected hardware. Users can customize front panels with knobs, buttons, dials and graphs to emulate control panels of instruments or add custom graphics to visually represent the control and operation of processes. LabVIEW, LabWindows/CVI and Measurement Studio also have ready-to-use libraries for controlling thousands of programmable instruments, including our hardware products, as well as traditional serial, General Purpose Interface Bus (“GPIB”), VME extensions for instrumentation (“VXI”), PCI, PCI Express, PCI Extensions for Instrumentation (“PXI”), PXI Express, Ethernet and USB measurement and automation devices from other vendors. The principal difference between LabVIEW, LabWindows/CVI, and Measurement Studio is in the way users develop programs. With LabVIEW, users program graphically, developing application programs by connecting icons with software wires to create “block diagrams” which are natural design notations for scientists and engineers. With LabVIEW Real-Time, the user can easily configure their application program to execute using a real-time operating system kernel instead of the Windows operating system, so users can easily build virtual instrument solutions for mission-critical applications that require highly reliable operation. In addition, with LabVIEW Real-Time, users can easily configure their programs to execute remotely on embedded processors inside PXI systems, on embedded processors inside CompactRIO distributed I/O systems, or on processors embedded on plug-in PC data acquisition boards. With LabVIEW FPGA, the user can configure their application to execute directly in silicon via an FPGA residing on one of our reconfigurable I/O hardware products. LabVIEW FPGA allows users to easily build their own highly specialized, custom hardware devices for ultra high-performance requirements or for unique or proprietary measurement or control protocols. LabWindows/CVI users use the conventional, text-based programming language of C for creating test and control applications. Measurement Studio consists of measurement and automation add-on libraries and additional tools for programmers that use Microsoft’s Visual Basic, Visual C++, Visual C#, and Visual Studio.NET development environments. We offer a software product called NI TestStand targeted for T&M applications in a manufacturing environment. TestStand is a test management environment for organizing, controlling, and running automated prototype, validation, and manufacturing test systems. It also generates customized test reports and integrates product and test data across the customers’ enterprise and across the Internet. TestStand manages tests that are written in LabVIEW, LabWindows/CVI, Measurement Studio, C and C++, and Visual Basic, so test engineers can easily share and re-use test code throughout their organization and from one product to the next. TestStand is a key element of our strategy to broaden the reach of our application software products across the corporate enterprise. NI Multisim equips engineers, educators, and students with powerful and innovative circuit design technology. Educators and students can take advantage of easy-to-use teaching tools to overcome the traditional hurdles in electronics education. Professional engineers can improve productivity with intuitive capture tools, interactive simulation, board layout, and design validation. Multisim was added to our software offering in 2005. NI DIAdem offers users configuration-based technical data management, analysis, and report generation tools to interactively mine and analyze data. DIAdem helps users make informed decisions and meet the demands of today’s testing environments, which require quick access to large volumes of scattered data, consistent reporting, and data visualization. In 2009, we introduced NI VeriStand, a ready-to-use software environment for configuring real-time testing applications, including hardware-in-the-loop (“HIL”) test systems. With NI VeriStand, users configure real-time I/O, stimulus profiles, data logging, alarming, and other tasks; implement control algorithms or system simulations by importing models from a variety of software environments; build test system user interfaces quickly; and add custom functionality using NI LabVIEW, NI TestStand, and other software environments. We offer volume licensing that helps customers maximize their software investment by reducing total cost of ownership and simplifying their software budgeting and purchasing. Hardware Products and Related Driver Software Using cutting-edge commercial technology, such as the latest, processors, Analog to Digital Converters (“ADCs”), FPGAs, and PC busses, our hardware delivers modular and easy-to-use solutions for a wide range of applications – from automated test and data logging to industrial control and embedded design. Our hardware and related driver software products include data acquisition (“DAQ”), PXI chassis and controllers, image acquisition, motion control, distributed I/O, modular instruments and embedded control hardware/software, industrial communications interfaces, GPIB interfaces, and VXI Controllers. The high level of integration among our products provides users with the flexibility to mix and match hardware components when developing custom virtual instrumentation systems. DAQ Hardware/Driver Software. Our DAQ hardware and driver software products are “instruments on a board” that users can combine with sensors, signal conditioning hardware and software to acquire analog data and convert it into a digital format that can be accepted by a computer. Computer-based DAQ products are typically a lower-cost solution than traditional instrumentation. Applications suitable for automation with computer-based DAQ products are widespread throughout many industries, and many systems currently using traditional instrumentation (either manual or computer-controlled) could be displaced by computer-based DAQ systems. We offer a range of computer-based DAQ products, including models for digital, analog and timing input-output, and for transferring data directly to a computer’s random-access memory. In 2006, we introduced NI CompactDAQ, a rugged, portable, USB data acquisition system designed for high-performance mixed-signal measurement systems. In 2008, we introduced our first data acquisition devices that leverage wireless technologies, an extension of PC-based data acquisition for measurement applications where wiring is difficult or cost-prohibitive. Some of our latest introductions include conditioned DAQ which is technology that combines the circuitry to prepare signals on the same device that measures them. Other product introductions include Ethernet DAQ that combines the power of high quality measurement with the convenience and long distance of Ethernet, and X Series DAQ which is a technology that delivers state-of-the-art measurement, timing and triggering on a single device. PXI Modular Instrumentation Platform. Our PXI modular instrument platform, which was introduced in 1997, is a standard PC packaged in a small, rugged form factor with expansion slots and instrumentation extensions for timing, triggering and signal sharing. It combines mainstream PC software and PCI hardware with advanced instrumentation capabilities. In essence, PXI is an instrumentation PC with several expansion slots supporting complete system-level opportunities and delivering a much higher percentage of the overall system content using our own products. We continue to expand our PXI product offerings with new modules, which address a wide variety of measurement and automation applications. The platform is now a testing standard, with a wide array of companies developing on the platform and investing in its future through the PXI System Alliance (“PXISA”). In 2006, we introduced our first PXI Express products which provide backward software compatibility with PXI while providing advanced capabilities for high-performance instrumentation, such as RF instrumentation. Today we have a rapidly expanding portfolio of PXI Express products that are further expanding the capabilities of this important platform. Modular Instruments. We offer a variety of modular instrument devices used in general purpose test and communication test applications. These devices include digitizers, digital multimeters, signal generators, RF analyzers/generators, power supplies, source measurement units and switch modules that users can configure through software to meet their specific measurement tasks. Because these instruments are modular and software-defined, they can be quickly interchanged and easily repurposed to meet evolving test needs. Additionally, our modular instruments provide high-speed test execution by harnessing the power of industry-standard PC FPGAs and advanced timing and synchronization technologies. Options are available for a variety of platforms including PXI, PXI Express, PCI, PCI Express, and USB. Machine Vision/Image Acquisition. Our machine vision platform includes hardware ranging from plug-in devices for PCI and PXI systems to image processing on the sensor itself with the NI Smart Camera. Software options include image acquisition software to acquire images from thousands of cameras, a world-class image processing library, and a configurable interface for industrial machine vision applications. In 1996, we introduced our first image acquisition hardware which provides users with a cost-effective solution to integrate vision into their measurement and automation applications. Our vision software is designed to work with many different software environments, including LabVIEW. In 2003, we introduced our Vision Builder software for automated inspection and our Compact Vision System, which is a small, rugged, industrial vision system that can connect up to three IEEE-1394 cameras and that is easily programmed using Vision Builder. In 2007, we introduced our first integrated Smart Cameras which leverage our LabVIEW software to provide integrated solutions for many inspection and other industrial/embedded applications. Motion Control. By integrating flexible software with high-performance hardware, our motion control products offer a powerful solution for motion system design. From automating test equipment and research labs to controlling biomedical, packaging, and manufacturing machines, engineers use our motion products to meet a diverse set of application challenges. Our software tools for motion easily integrate with our other product lines, so users can combine motion control with image acquisition, test, measurement, data acquisition, and automation to create robust, flexible solutions. We introduced our first line of motion control hardware, software and peripheral products in 1997. Distributed I/O and Embedded Control Hardware/Software. Our distributed I/O products, including Compact FieldPoint, and CompactRIO, are designed for remote measurement, industrial control, and embedded data-logging applications. Compact FieldPoint is an intelligent, distributed, and modular I/O system that gives industrial system developers an economical solution for distributed data acquisition, monitoring and control applications. Suitable for direct connection to industrial signals, Compact FieldPoint includes a wide array of rugged and isolated analog and digital I/O modules, terminal base options, and network modules. With LabVIEW Real-Time users can download their LabVIEW code and easily create networked systems of intelligent, real-time nodes for embedded measurement and control. In 2004, we introduced CompactRIO, an advanced embedded control and acquisition system powered by our reconfigurable I/O (“RIO”) technology. CompactRIO leverages LabVIEW Real-Time and LabVIEW FPGA for industrial control, process monitoring, and embedded machine applications that require intelligent I/O products with a small form factor, a wide operating temperature, and resistance to shock and vibration. In 2008, we introduced Single-Board RIO, which is a board-only, lower-cost version of CompactRIO designed for higher volume system deployments. In 2010, we announced that more than 100 C Series modules for cRIO are available from NI and other companies. We also added vision capabilities and introduced controllers designed to operate at extended temperature ranges from -40 to 70 degrees C. Industrial Communications Interfaces. In 1995, we began shipping our first interface boards for communicating with serial devices, such as data loggers and PLCs targeted for industrial/embedded applications, and benchtop instruments, such as oscilloscopes, targeted for test and measurement applications. We offer hardware and driver software product lines for communication with industrial devices—Controller Area Network (“CAN”), DeviceNet, Foundation Fieldbus, and RS-485 and RS-232. GPIB Interfaces/Driver Software. We began selling GPIB products in 1977 and are a leading supplier of GPIB interface boards and driver software to control traditional GPIB instruments. These traditional instruments are manufactured by a variety of third-party vendors and are used primarily in T&M applications. Our diverse portfolio of hardware and software products for GPIB instrument control is available for a wide range of computers. Our GPIB product line also includes products for controlling GPIB instruments using the computer’s standard parallel, USB, IEEE 1394 (“Firewire”), Ethernet, and serial ports. VXI Controllers//Driver Software. We are a leading supplier of VXI computer controller hardware and the accompanying NI-VXI and NI-VISA driver software. We also offer LabVIEW, LabWindows/CVI, Measurement Studio and TestStand software products for VXI systems. System Configuration and Deployment. Our trained technicians install software and hardware and configure our customers’ PXI, PXI/SCXI combination, NI CompactRIO, or NI Compact FieldPoint system to their specifications. Calibration. We provide calibration solutions, including recalibration services, manual calibration procedures, and automated calibration software. Warranty and Repair. Extended warranties help meet project life-cycle requirements and provide repair services for our products, express repair, and advance replacement services. Services Customer Training Courses. We offer fee-based training classes and self-paced course kits for many of our software and hardware products. On-site courses are quoted per customer requests and we include on-line course offerings with live teachers. We also offer programs to certify programmers and instructors for our products. Software Maintenance Software maintenance revenue is post contract customer support that provides the customer with unspecified upgrades and/or updates and technical support. Markets and Applications Our products are used across many industries in a variety of applications including research and development, simulation and modeling, product design, prototype and validation, production testing and industrial control and field and factory service and repair. We serve the following industries and applications worldwide: advanced research, automotive, automated test equipment, consumer electronics, commercial aerospace, computers and electronics, continuous process manufacturing, education, government/defense, medical research/pharmaceutical, power/energy, semiconductors, telecommunications and others. Customers We have a broad customer base, with no customer accounting for more than 4% of our sales in 2010 and no more than 3% of our sales in 2009 or 2008. Marketing Through our worldwide marketing efforts, we strive to educate engineers and scientists about the benefits of our graphical system design and virtual instrumentation philosophy, products and technology, and to highlight the performance, ease of use and cost advantages of our products. We also seek to present our position as a technological leader among producers of instrumentation software and hardware and to help promulgate industry standards that can benefit users of computer-based instrumentation. We reach our intended audience through our Web site at ni.com as well as through the distribution of written and electronic materials including demonstration versions of our software products, participation in tradeshows and technical conferences and training and user seminars. We actively market our products in higher education environments, and we identify many colleges, universities and trade and technical schools as key accounts. We offer special academic pricing and products to enable universities to utilize our products in their classes and laboratories. We believe our prominence in the higher education area can contribute to our future success because students gain experience using our products before they enter the work force. Sales and Distribution We sell our software and hardware products primarily through a direct sales organization. We also use independent distributors, OEMs, VARs, system integrators and consultants to market our products. Our Hungarian manufacturing facility sources a substantial majority of our sales throughout the world. We have sales offices in the U.S. and sales offices and distributors in key international markets. Sales outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 62%, 61% and 61%, of our revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our total revenues will continue to be derived from international sales. (See Note 12 – Segment information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details concerning the geographic breakdown of our net sales, operating income, interest income and identifiable assets.) We believe the ability to provide comprehensive service and support to our customers is an important factor in our business. We permit customers to return products within 30 days from receipt for a refund of the purchase price less a restocking charge. Our products are generally warranted against defects in materials and workmanship for one year from the date we ship the products to our customers. Historically, warranty costs have not been material. The marketplace for our products dictates that many of our products be shipped very quickly after an order is received. As a result, we are required to maintain significant inventories. Therefore, inventory obsolescence is a risk for us due to frequent engineering changes, shifting customer demand, the emergence of new industry standards and rapid technological advances including the introduction by us or our competitors of products embodying new technology. We strive to mitigate this risk by monitoring inventory levels against product demand and technological changes. Additionally, many of our products have interchangeable parts and many have long lives. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts in the future. Our foreign operations are subject to certain risks set forth on page 16 under “We are Subject to Various Risks Associated with International Operations and Foreign Economies.” See discussion regarding fluctuations in our quarterly results and seasonality in ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, “Our Revenues are Subject to Seasonal Variations.” Competition The markets in which we operate are characterized by intense competition from numerous competitors, some of which are divisions of large corporations having far greater resources than we have, and we may face further competition from new market entrants in the future. A key competitor is Agilent Technologies Inc. (“Agilent”). Agilent offers hardware and software products that provide solutions that directly compete with our virtual instrumentation products and has recently released its own line of PXI based hardware. Agilent is aggressively advertising and marketing products that are competitive with our products. Because of Agilent’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: · new product introductions by competitors; · the ability of competitors to more fully leverage low cost geographies; · product pricing; · the impact of foreign exchange rates on product pricing; · adequate manufacturing capacity and supply of components and materials; · efficiency of manufacturing operations; · success in developing new products; · timing of our new product introductions; · effectiveness of sales and marketing resources and strategies ; · strategic relationships with other suppliers; · quality and performance; · protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; · the outcome of any material intellectual property litigation; · the financial strength of our competitors; · barriers to entry imposed by competitors with significant market power in new markets; · general market and economic conditions; and, · government actions throughout the world. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Research and Development We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on delivering high quality hardware and software products on a timely basis. We intend to focus our research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and developing new products that incorporate appropriate features and functionality to be competitive with respect to technology and price/performance characteristics. Our research and development staff strives to build quality into products at the design stage in an effort to reduce overall development and manufacturing costs. Our research and development staff also designs proprietary application specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”), many of which are designed for use in several of our products. The goal of our ASIC design program is to further differentiate our products from competing products, to improve manufacturability and to reduce costs. We seek to reduce our time to market for new and enhanced products by sharing our internally developed hardware and software components across multiple products. As of December 31, 2010, we employed 1,529 people in product research and development. Our research and development expenses were $158 million $133 million and $143 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, contracts and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. As of December 31, 2010, we held 560 U.S. patents (553 utility patents and 7 design patents) and 30 patents in foreign countries (28 patents registered in Europe in various countries; and 2 patents in Japan), and had 283 patent applications pending in the U.S. and foreign countries. 154 of our issued U.S. patents are software patents related to LabVIEW, and cover fundamental aspects of the graphical programming approach used in LabVIEW. Our patents expire from 2011 to 2027. The expiration of any patents in the short term is not expected to have any significant negative impact on our business. No assurance can be given that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. We also own certain registered trademarks in the United States and abroad. See further discussion regarding risks associated with our patents in ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, “Our Business Depends on Our Proprietary Rights and We are Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation.” Manufacturing and Suppliers We manufacture a substantial majority of our products at our facilities in Debrecen, Hungary. Additional production primarily of low volume or newly introduced products is done in Austin, Texas. Our product manufacturing operations can be divided into four areas: electronic circuit card and module assembly; chassis and cable assembly; technical manuals and product support documentation; and software duplication. We manufacture most of the electronic circuit card assemblies and modules in-house, although subcontractors are used from time to time. We have used a subcontractor in Asia to manufacture a significant portion of our chassis but most of that production was moved in house during 2010. We manufacture some of our electronic cable assemblies in-house, but many assemblies are produced by subcontractors. We primarily subcontract our software duplication, our technical manuals and product support documentation. Our long term manufacturing and warehousing capacity planning contemplates a third manufacturing and warehousing facility in Penang, Malaysia. We began warehousing and distribution operations out of Penang, Malaysia via a third party logistics provider on October 1, 2010. We plan to start construction of a manufacturing and logistics facility in Malaysia in the third quarter of 2011, and plan to begin manufacturing operations at our Penang location during the third quarter of 2012. Our manufacturing processes use large volumes of high-quality components and subassemblies supplied by outside sources in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Several of these components are available through limited sources. Limited source components purchased include custom ASICs, chassis and other components. Any disruption of our supply of limited source components, whether resulting from business demand, quality, production or delivery problems, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products, which could in turn adversely affect our business and results of operations. See “Our Business is Dependent on Key Suppliers” at page 15 for additional discussion of the risks associated with limited source suppliers. See “Our Manufacturing Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs” at page 17 for discussion of environmental matters as they may affect our business. Backlog Backlog is a measure of orders that are received but that are not shipped to customers at the end of the quarter. We typically ship products shortly following the receipt of an order. Accordingly, our backlog typically represents less than 5 days sales. Backlog should not be viewed as an indicator of our future sales. During 2010, our order backlog increased by approximately $9 million from the level at December 31, 2009. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 5,280 employees worldwide, including 1,529 in research and development, 2,387 in sales and marketing and customer support, 759 in manufacturing and 605 in administration and finance. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our employee relations to be good. For twelve consecutive years, from 1999 to 2010, we have been named among the 100 Best Companies to Work for in America according to FORTUNE magazine. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A Substantial Majority of Our Manufacturing Capacity is Located in Hungary. Our Hungarian manufacturing and warehouse facility sources a substantial majority of our sales. In order to enable timely shipment of products to our customers we also maintain the vast majority of our inventory at our Hungary warehouse facility. In addition to being subject to the risks of maintaining such a concentration of manufacturing capacity and global inventory, this facility and its operation are also subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: · difficulty in managing manufacturing operations in a foreign country; · challenges in expanding capacity to meet increased demand; · difficulty in achieving or maintaining product quality; · interruption to transportation flows for delivery of components to us and finished goods to our customers; · a restrictive labor code; · increasing labor costs; · the volatility of the Hungarian forint relative to the U.S. dollar; · changing and unstable political environment; and, · significant and frequent changes in the corporate tax law. No assurance can be given that our efforts to mitigate these risks will be successful. We are currently operating our manufacturing facility in Hungary at a high level of capacity utilization and are selectively increasing our capacity to meet anticipated demand for our products. Any failure to effectively deal with the risks above could result in an interruption in the facility’s operation or delays in expanding its capacity, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and limit our revenue growth opportunities. Our long term manufacturing and warehousing capacity planning contemplates a third manufacturing and warehousing facility in Penang, Malaysia. We began warehousing and distribution operations out of Penang, Malaysia via a third party logistics provider on October 1, 2010. We plan to start construction of a manufacturing and logistics facility in Malaysia in the third quarter of 2011, and plan to begin manufacturing operations at our Penang location during the third quarter of 2012. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in deploying our new facility in Malaysia on schedule. Our failure to successfully deploy our new facility in Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, our ability to grow our business as well as our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. If we succeed in deploying our Malaysian manufacturing facility on schedule and the demand for our products does not grow as expected, we will have excess manufacturing capacity which will cause an increase in overhead that will negatively impact our gross margins and results of operations. We Have Established a Budget and Variations From Our Budget Will Affect Our Financial Results. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we established an operating budget for 2011. Our budgets are established based on the estimated revenue from sales of our products which are based on economic conditions in the markets in which we do business as well as the timing and volume of our new products and the expected penetration of both new and existing products in the marketplace. If demand for our products in 2011 is less than the demand we anticipated in setting our 2011 budget, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We are budgeting to increase our research and development personnel by 19% and our field sales force by 24% during 2011. Our overall headcount is budgeted to increase by 17%. We anticipate the incremental cost of these additions will be partially offset by an expected reduction in our variable compensation in 2011. If we exceed the level of expenses established in our 2011 operating budget or if we cannot reduce budgeted expenditures in response to a decrease in revenue, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our spending could exceed our budgets due to a number of factors, including: · increased costs from hiring more product development engineers or other personnel; · increased costs from hiring more field sales personnel; · increased manufacturing costs resulting from component supply shortages and/or component price fluctuations; · additional expenses related to intellectual property litigation; · additional marketing costs for new product introductions and/or for conferences and tradeshows; · increased component costs resulting from vendors increasing prices in response to increased economic activity; and/or · additional costs related to acquisitions, if any. Uncertain Economic Conditions Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. Our business is sensitive to fluctuations in general economic conditions, both in the U.S. and globally. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tight credit, unemployment, negative financial news, new tax policies, uncertainty in foreign currency markets, and/or declines in income or asset values. This could negatively impact the spending patterns of businesses including our current and potential customers which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and therefore harm our business and results of operations. Other factors that could adversely influence demand for our products include increases in fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, restricted access to credit, changes in consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting business spending patterns. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy. During 2010, the global industrial economy expanded. We cannot predict whether the global industrial economy will continue to grow or maintain stability throughout 2011. If this expansion cycle is not sustained, even at moderate growth levels, it could have an adverse effect on the spending patterns of businesses including our current and potential customers which could adversely affect our revenues and therefore harm our business and result of operations. Our Income Tax Rate is Affected by our Tax Benefits in Hungary. The profit from our Hungarian operations benefit from the fact that they are subject to an income tax rate that is lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Part of this benefit became effective January 1, 2010, under a new tax law in Hungary that provides for an enhanced deduction for qualified research and development expenses. The enhanced tax deduction for research and development expenses resulted in an income tax benefit of $13 million in 2010. This benefit may not be available in future years due to changes in political conditions in Hungary or changes in tax laws in Hungary and in the U.S. The reduction or elimination of these benefits in Hungary or future changes in U.S. law pertaining to the taxation of foreign earnings could result in an increase in our future effective income tax rate which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Centralization of Inventory and Distribution. Currently, shipments to our customers worldwide are primarily sourced from our warehouse facility in Debrecen, Hungary. Shipments to some of our customers in Asia are currently made either out of local inventory managed by our branch operations in various Asian countries or from a centralized distribution point in Penang, Malaysia. We plan to continue to devote resources to centralizing our distribution to a limited number of shipping points. Our centralization of inventory and distribution from a limited number of shipping points is subject to inherent risks, including: · burdens of complying with additional and/or more complex VAT and customs regulations; and, · severe concentration of inventory increasing the risks associated with fire, natural disasters and logistics disruptions to customer order fulfillment. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. Any difficulties with the centralization of distribution or delays in the implementation of the systems or processes to support this centralized distribution could result in an interruption of our normal operations, including our ability to process orders and ship products to our customers. Any failure or delay in distribution from our facility in Hungary could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We Operate in Intensely Competitive Markets. The markets in which we operate are characterized by intense competition from numerous competitors, some of which are divisions of large corporations having far greater resources than we have, and we may face further competition from new market entrants in the future. A key competitor is Agilent Technologies Inc. (“Agilent”). Agilent offers hardware and software products that provide solutions that directly compete with our virtual instrumentation products and has recently released its own line of PXI based hardware. Agilent is aggressively advertising and marketing products that are competitive with our products. Because of Agilent’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: · new product introductions by competitors; · the ability of competitors to more fully leverage low cost geographies; · product pricing; · the impact of foreign exchange rates on product pricing; · adequate manufacturing capacity and supply of components and materials; · efficiency of manufacturing operations; · success in developing new products; · timing of our new product introductions; · effectiveness of sales and marketing resources and strategies; · strategic relationships with other suppliers; · quality and performance; · protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; · the outcome of any material intellectual property litigation; · the financial strength of our competitors; · barriers to entry imposed by competitors with significant market power in new markets; · general market and economic conditions; and, · government actions throughout the world. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Concentrations of Credit Risk and Uncertain Conditions in the Global Financial Markets May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Result of Operations. By virtue of our holdings of cash, investment securities and foreign currency derivatives, we have exposure to many different counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks and investment banks. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default of our counterparties. There can be no assurance that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets as a result of defaults by our counterparties, would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We Rely on Management Information Systems and any Disruptions in Our Systems Would Adversely Affect Us. We rely on a primary global center for our management information systems and on multiple systems in branches not covered by our global center. As with any information system, unforeseen issues may arise that could affect our ability to receive adequate, accurate and timely financial information, which in turn could inhibit effective and timely decisions. Furthermore, it is possible that our global center for information systems or our branch operations could experience a complete or partial shutdown. If such a shutdown occurred, it would impact our product shipments and revenues, as order processing and product distribution are heavily dependent on our management information systems. Accordingly, our operating results in such periods would be adversely impacted. We are continually working to maintain reliable systems to control costs and improve our ability to deliver our products in our markets worldwide. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. During 2010, we continued to devote resources to the development of our web offering. In addition, we devoted significant resources to the upgrade of our Americas business application suite to Oracle’s version R12. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with our systems or web offerings. Difficulties with our systems or web offerings may interrupt our normal operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. Any disruption occurring with these systems or web offerings may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. During 2011, we plan to devote significant resources to the upgrade of our European and Japanese business application suite to Oracle’s version R12. We are also planning to upgrade the underlying infrastructure of our web site, ni.com, and our European and Japanese business application suite. In addition, we expect to continue to devote resources to the continued development of our worldwide network infrastructure, business applications and web offerings. These types of system wide upgrades and development have the potential to cause significant business disruptions. We have plans to mitigate these potential business disruptions but there is no certainty that our plans will be effective should such a disruption occur. Any failure to successfully implement these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Recent Adoption of Complex Health Care Legislation and Related Regulations and Financial Reform Could Increase our Operating Costs. The adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and the regulations resulting from such legislation could increase the costs of providing health care to our employees. Due to the complexity of the legislation and the uncertain timing and content of the related regulations, we are unable to predict the amount and timing of any such increased costs. In addition it is likely that we will incur additional administrative costs to comply with certain provisions of this legislation. Due to the fact that many of the rules and regulations have not yet been defined, we are unable to predict the amount of these costs or to what extent we may need to divert other resources to comply with various provisions of this legislation. Additionally, the recently adopted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could result in increased costs to us either as a result of our efforts to comply with the corporate governance provisions which may be applicable to us or due to the impact of such legislation on the derivative contracts or other financial instruments or financial markets that we utilize in the normal course of our business. Our Quarterly Results are Subject to Fluctuations Due to Various Factors. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: · changes in the mix of products sold; · changes in the amount of revenue derived from large orders; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in the economy or credit markets in the U.S. or globally; · the availability and pricing of components from third parties (especially limited sources); · the timing, cost or outcome of intellectual property litigation; · the difficulty in maintaining margins, including the higher margins traditionally achieved in international sales; · changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or suppliers; · delays in product shipments caused by human error or other factors; and, · disruptions in transportation channels. Our Revenues are Subject to Seasonal Variations. In previous years, our revenues have been characterized by seasonality, with revenues typically growing from the first quarter to the second quarter, being relatively constant from the second quarter to the third quarter, growing in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter and declining in the first quarter of the following year from the fourth quarter of the preceding year. This historical trend has been affected and may continue to be affected in the future by broad fluctuations in the global industrial economy, the economic impact of larger orders as well as the timing of new product introductions and/or acquisitions, if any. We cannot predict whether the global industrial economy will continue to grow or maintain stability throughout 2011. Our total operating expenses have in the past tended to increase in each successive quarter and have fluctuated as a percentage of revenue based on the seasonality of our revenue. We are budgeting to increase our research and development personnel by 19% and our field sales force by 24% during 2011. Our overall headcount is budgeted to increase by 17%. The timing and extent of these personnel additions could affect our historical patterns of operating costs as a percent of revenue and our historical patterns of profitability. Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries. Sales of our products are dependent on customers in certain industries, particularly the telecommunications, semiconductor, consumer electronics, automotive, automated test equipment, defense and aerospace industries. As we have experienced in the past, and as we may continue to experience in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries may result in decreased sales, and a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Success Depends on New Product Introductions and Market Acceptance of Our Products. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new product introductions, and is therefore highly dependent upon timely product innovation. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis to replace declining revenues from older products, and on increasing penetration in domestic and international markets. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, we have experienced significant delays between the announcement and the commercial availability of new products. Any significant delay in releasing new products could have a material adverse effect on the ultimate success of a product and other related products and could impede continued sales of predecessor products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to introduce new products in accordance with announced release dates, that new products will achieve market acceptance or that any such acceptance will be sustained for any significant period. Failure of our new products to achieve or sustain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our efforts to increase foreign market penetration. Our Business is Dependent on Key Suppliers. Our manufacturing processes use large volumes of high-quality components and subassemblies supplied by outside sources. Several of these components are available through limited sources. Limited source components purchased include custom application specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”), chassis and other components. We have in the past experienced delays and quality problems in connection with limited source components, and there can be no assurance that these problems will not recur in the future. Accordingly, our failure to receive components from limited suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. In the event that any of our limited suppliers experience significant financial or operational difficulties due to adverse global economic conditions or otherwise, our business and operating results would likely be adversely impacted until we are able to secure another source for the required materials. We May Experience Component Shortages. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, supply shortages of components used in our products, including limited source components, can result in significant additional costs and inefficiencies in manufacturing. If we are unsuccessful in resolving any such component shortages in a timely manner, we will experience a significant impact on the timing of revenue, a possible loss of revenue, and/or an increase in manufacturing costs, any of which would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Web Site. We devote resources to maintain our Web site as a key marketing, sales and support tool and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our attempt to leverage the Web to increase sales. We host our Web site internally. Any failure to successfully maintain our Web site or any significant downtime or outages affecting our Web site could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our Products are Complex and May Contain Bugs or Errors. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, our new software products or new operating systems of third parties on which our products are based often contain bugs or errors that can result in reduced sales and/or cause our support costs to increase, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We are Subject to Various Risks Associated with International Operations and Foreign Economies. Our international sales are subject to inherent risks, including: · fluctuations in local economies; · fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in the repatriation of earnings; and, · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any violation of foreign or U.S. laws by our employees, contractors or agents, even if such violation is prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must also comply with various import and export regulations. The application of these various regulations depends on the classification of our products which can change over time as such regulations are modified or interpreted. As a result, even if we are currently in compliance with applicable regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not have to incur additional costs or take additional compliance actions in the future. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and/or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, the regulatory environment in some countries is very restrictive as their governments try to protect their local economy and value of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. The vast majority of our sales outside of North America are denominated in local currencies, and accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent of these sales is affected by changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. The change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our consolidated sales by $13 million or 2% in 2010 and decreasing our consolidated sales by $30 million or 4% in 2009. If the local currencies in which we sell our products strengthen against the U.S. dollar, we may need to lower our prices in the local currency to remain competitive in our international markets which could have a material adverse effect on our gross and net profit margins. If the local currencies in which we sell our products weaken against the U.S. dollar and if the local sales prices cannot be raised due to competitive pressures, we will experience a deterioration of our gross and net profit margins. Since most of our international operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $9 million or 3% in 2010 and decreasing our operating expenses by $12 million or 2% in 2009. Currently, we are experiencing significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in many of the markets in which we do business. This has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent revenues and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs. In the past, these dynamics have also adversely affected our revenue growth in international markets and may pose similar challenges in the future. Our Business Depends on Our Proprietary Rights and We are Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation. Our success depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights relative to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may have in the past infringed or violated certain of our intellectual property rights. We from time to time engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In monitoring and policing our intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required to spend significant resources. We from time to time may be notified that we are infringing certain patent or intellectual property rights of others. There can be no assurance that any existing intellectual property litigation or any intellectual property litigation initiated in the future, will not result in significant litigation expense, liability, injunction against the sale of some of our products, and a diversion of management’s attention, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Reported Financial Results May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Our Business Depends on the Continued Service of Key Management and Technical Personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, sales, marketing, research and development and operational personnel, including Dr. Truchard, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management and key technical personnel. We have no agreements providing for the employment of any of our key employees for any fixed term and our key employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees. Our failure to attract or retain key technical or managerial talent could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We also recruit and employ foreign nationals to achieve our hiring goals primarily for engineering and software positions. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to recruit foreign nationals at the current rate. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our existing key personnel or attracting and retaining additional key personnel. Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Manufacturing Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs. We must comply with many different governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing operations in the U.S. and in Hungary. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. We Are Subject to the Risk of Product Liability Claims. Our products are designed to provide information upon which users may rely. Our products are also used in “real time” applications requiring extremely rapid and continuous processing and constant feedback. Such applications give rise to the risk that a failure or interruption of the system or application could result in economic damage or bodily harm. We attempt to assure the quality and accuracy of the processes contained in our products, and to limit our product liability exposure through contractual limitations on liability, limited warranties, express disclaimers and warnings as well as disclaimers contained in our “shrink wrap” license agreements with end-users. If our products contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes, customer acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Further, we could be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Although we maintain liability insurance for product liability matters, there can be no assurance that such insurance or the contractual limitations used by us to limit our liability will be sufficient to cover or limit any claims which may occur. Our Acquisitions are Subject to a Number of Related Costs and Challenges. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions generally require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Some of the existing products previously sold by some of the entities we have acquired are of lesser quality than our products and/or could contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes that could subject us to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction. Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay or Prevent an Acquisition of Us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors, prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, prohibition of stockholders to call special meetings and the requirement that the holders of at least 80% of our shares approve any business combination not otherwise approved by two-thirds of the Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Our Board of Directors adopted a stockholders rights plan on January 21, 2004, pursuant to which we declared a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock outstanding as of May 10, 2004. This rights plan replaced a similar rights plan that had been in effect since our initial public offering in 1995. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise thereof shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to twice the then-current exercise price of the right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. Compliance With Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is Costly and Challenging. As required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, this Form 10-K contains our management’s certification of adequate disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2010. This report on Form 10-K also contains a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. This Form 10-K also contains an attestation and report by our external auditors with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While these assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, compliance with Sections 302 and 404 is required for each future fiscal year end. We expect that the ongoing compliance with Sections 302 and 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. Any adverse results from such ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 