ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in the U.S. or Global Economies Will Impact our Future Business. As has occurred in the past and may occur in the future, the markets in which we do business could experience the negative effects of a slowdown in the U.S. and/or Global economies. In particular, current market conditions indicate that the U.S. economy could be entering a recessionary period in 2008. The worsening of the U.S. or Global economies could result in reduced purchasing and capital spending in any of our markets which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business could also be subject to or impacted by acts of terrorism and/or the effects that war or continued U.S. military action would have on the U.S. and/or Global economies. Our business could also be impacted by public health concerns, natural disasters, disruptions to public or commercial transportation systems, political instability or similar events which result in increased difficulty or higher costs for the export of products into affected regions, the import of components used in our products from affected regions, and/or the effects the event has on the economy in regions in which we do business. Negative Conditions in the Global Credit Markets May Impair the Liquidity of a Portion of Our Investment Portfolio. Included within our short–term investments are Aaa/AAA/AA rated investments in auction rate securities. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our investments in these securities may fail. If an auction fails for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. On February 15, 2008, auction rate securities that we originally purchased for $8.6 million failed the auction process. We do not consider these investments as liquid in the short-term. In the event that we needed to access these funds, we would not be able to do so until a future auction on these securities was successful. We do not believe that the auction process will provide liquidity for the securities in the foreseeable future. We are uncertain as to when the liquidity issues relating to these securities will improve. Accordingly, these securities should be considered as non-current as of February 15, 2008. Although we have uncertainty with regard to the future short-term liquidity of these securities, we continue to believe that the fair value of these investments continues to be par value based on the fact that these securities have redemption features which call for redemption at 100% of par value, the fact that the underlying debt continues to carry Aaa/AAA/AA and the fact that we have the ability to hold these securities to maturity. We Have Established a Budget and Variations From Our Budget Will Affect Our Financial Results. We have established an operating budget for 2008. Our budget was established based on the estimated revenue from forecasted sales of our products which is based on economic conditions in the markets in which we do business as well as the timing and volume of our new products and the expected penetration of both new and existing products in the marketplace. Our spending for 2008 could exceed our budget due to a number of factors, including: o additional marketing costs for new product introductions and/or for conferences and tradeshows; o increased costs from hiring more product development engineers or other personnel; o additional costs related to acquisitions, if any; o increased manufacturing costs resulting from component supply shortages and/or component price fluctuations; and/or o additional expenses related to intellectual property litigation. Any future decreased demand for our products could result in decreased revenue and could require us to revise our budget and reduce expenditures. Exceeding our established operating budget or failing to reduce expenditures in response to any decrease in revenue could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Business is Dependent on Key Suppliers. Our manufacturing processes use large volumes of high-quality components and subassemblies supplied by outside sources. Several of these components are available through sole or limited sources. Sole-source components purchased include custom ASICs, chassis and other components. We have in the past experienced delays and quality problems in connection with sole-source components, and there can be no assurance that these problems will not recur in the future. Accordingly, our failure to receive sole-source components from suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. We May Experience Component Shortages. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, supply shortages of components used in our products, including sole source components, can result in significant additional costs and inefficiencies in manufacturing. If we are unsuccessful in resolving any such component shortages in a timely manner, we will experience a significant impact on the timing of revenue, a possible loss of revenue and/or an increase in manufacturing costs, any of which would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our Quarterly Results are Subject to Fluctuation Due to Various Factors. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: o changes in the mix of products sold; o the availability and pricing of components from third parties (especially sole sources); o pricing of our products; o fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; o the timing, cost or outcome of intellectual property litigation; o the difficulty in maintaining margins, including the higher margins traditionally achieved in international sales; and o changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or suppliers. In particular, if the local currencies in which we sell our products weaken against the U.S. dollar, and if the local sales prices cannot be raised due to competitive pressures, we will experience a deterioration of our gross and net profit margins. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our gross and net profit margins. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, our new software products or new operating systems of third parties on which our products are based often contain bugs or errors that can result in reduced sales and/or cause our support costs to increase, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Furthermore, we have significant revenues from customers in industries such as semiconductors, automated test equipment, telecommunications, aerospace, defense and automotive which are cyclical in nature. Downturns in these industries could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In recent years, our revenues have been characterized by seasonality, with revenues typically being relatively constant in the second and third quarters, growing in the fourth quarter and declining from the fourth quarter of the year to the first quarter of the following year. This historical trend may be affected in the future by the economic impact of larger orders as well as the timing of new product introductions and/or acquisitions, if any. We believe the seasonality of our revenue results from the international mix of our revenue and the variability of the budgeting and purchasing cycles of our customers throughout each international region. In addition, our total operating expenses have in the past tended to increase in each successive quarter and have fluctuated as a percentage of revenue based on changes in the seasonality of our revenue. Our Success Depends on New Product Introductions and Market Acceptance of Our Products. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new product introductions, and is therefore highly dependent upon timely product innovation. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis to replace declining revenues from older products, and on increasing penetration in domestic and international markets. In the past, we have experienced significant delays between the announcement and the commercial availability of new products. Any significant delay in releasing new products could have a material adverse effect on the ultimate success of a product and other related products and could impede continued sales of our predecessor products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to introduce new products in accordance with announced release dates, that new products will achieve market acceptance or that any such acceptance will be sustained for any significant period. Failure of our new products to achieve or sustain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our efforts to increase foreign market penetration. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Web Site. We devote resources to maintain our Web site as a key marketing, sales and support tool and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to leverage the Web to increase sales. We host our Web site internally. Any failure to successfully maintain our Web site or any significant downtime or outages affecting our Web site could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. We Operate in Intensely Competitive Markets. The markets in which we operate are characterized by intense competition from numerous competitors, some of which are divisions of large corporations having far greater resources than we have, and we expect to face further competition from new market entrants in the future. A key competitor is Agilent Technologies Inc. ("Agilent"). Agilent offers its own line of hardware and software products that provide solutions that directly compete with our virtual instrumentation products. Agilent is aggressively advertising and marketing products that are competitive with our products. Because of Agilent’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: o new product introductions by competitors; o product pricing; o quality and performance; o success in developing new products; o adequate manufacturing capacity and supply of components and materials; o efficiency of manufacturing operations; o effectiveness of sales and marketing resources and strategies; o strategic relationships with key suppliers; o timing of our new product introductions; o protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; o the outcome of any material intellectual property litigation; o general market and economic conditions; and o government actions throughout the world. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We Rely on Management Information Systems and any Disruption in Such Systems Would Adversely Affect Us. We rely on two primary regional centers for our management information systems and on multiple systems in some branches not covered by our two regional centers. As with any information system, unforeseen issues may arise that could affect our ability to receive adequate, accurate and timely financial information, which in turn could inhibit effective and timely decisions. Furthermore, it is possible that one or both of our regional information systems could experience a complete or partial shutdown. If such a shutdown occurred, it could impact our product shipments and revenues, as order processing and product distribution are heavily dependent on the integrated management information systems in each region. Accordingly, our operating results in such periods would be adversely impacted. We are working to maintain reliable regional management information systems to control costs and improve our ability to deliver our products in our markets worldwide. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. The failure to receive adequate, accurate and timely financial information could inhibit our ability to make effective and timely decisions. During 2007, we devoted resources to the implementation of systems to support the shipment of products from our manufacturing facility and warehouse in Hungary directly to customers worldwide, and to the continued development of our web offerings. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with these new systems. Difficulties with these new systems may interrupt our normal operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. Any disruption occurring with these systems may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. During 2008, we plan to continue to devote significant resources on the systems that support shipment of products from our manufacturing facility and warehouse in Hungary directly to our customers worldwide, and to the continued development of our web offerings. Any failure to successfully implement these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Centralization of Inventory and Distribution. We are devoting considerable resources to centralizing our distribution to a limited number of shipping points. Currently, shipments to our European customers are sourced from our warehouse facility in Debrecen, Hungary. Shipments to almost all customers in the Americas were previously sourced from our warehouse in Austin, Texas. Since July 2007, our Austin distribution operation has been transferred to Debrecen, Hungary and since October 2007 our Japanese distribution operations have also been transferred to Debrecen, Hungary. Shipments to most of our customers in the rest of Asia are currently made either out of local inventory managed by our branch operations in various Asian countries or from a centralized distribution point in Singapore. Our planned centralization of inventory and distribution to a limited number of shipping points is subject to inherent risks, including: o burdens of complying with additional and/or more complex VAT and customs regulations; o severe concentration of inventory increasing the impact associated with fire, natural disasters, and logistics disruptions to customer order fulfillment; No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. Any difficulties with the centralization of distribution or delays in the implementation of the systems or processes to support this centralized distribution could result in interruption of our normal operation, including our ability to process orders and ship products to our customers. Any failure or delay in successfully centralizing our inventory in and distribution from our facility in Hungary could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We are Subject to Various Risks Associated with International Operations and Foreign Economies. Our international sales are subject to inherent risks, including: o fluctuations in local economies; o fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; o difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; o greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; o costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; o unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; o tariffs and other trade barriers; o difficulties in the repatriation of earnings; and o the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take actions in violations of our policies. Any violation of foreign or United States laws by our employees, contractors or agents, even if such violation is prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must also comply with various import and export regulations. The application of these various regulations depends on the classification of our products which can change over time as such regulations are modified or interpreted. As a result, even if we are currently in compliance with applicable regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not have to incur additional costs or take additional compliance actions in the future. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and/or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, the regulatory environment in some countries is very restrictive as their governments try to protect their local economy and value of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. Sales made by our international direct sales offices are denominated in local currencies, and accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent of these sales is affected by changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Net of hedging results, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our consolidated sales by 3.2% in 2007 compared to 2006. Since most of our international operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $10.4 million in 2007 compared to 2006. If the U.S. dollar weakens in the future, it could result in our having to reduce prices locally in order for our products to remain competitive in the local marketplace. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in the future, and we are unable to successfully raise our international selling prices, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. A Substantial Majority of Our Manufacturing Capacity is Located in Hungary. Our Hungarian manufacturing facility sources a substantial majority of our sales. During the third quarter of 2006, we moved one of our two manufacturing lines in our Austin, Texas manufacturing facility to our manufacturing facility in Debrecen, Hungary. During 2007, we continued to implement systems and processes that support the direct shipment of product orders to our customers worldwide from our manufacturing facility in Hungary and will continue to do so in 2008. In order to better insure timely shipment of products to our customers we will maintain the vast majority of our inventory at our Hungary manufacturing facility. In addition to being subject to the risks of maintaining such a concentrated global inventory, this facility and its operation are also subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: o difficulty in managing manufacturing operations in a foreign country; o difficulty in achieving or maintaining product quality; o interruption to transportation flows for delivery of components to us and finished goods to our customers; and o changes in the country's political or economic conditions. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. Accordingly, a failure to deal with these factors could result in interruption in the facility’s operation or delays in expanding its capacity, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Income Tax Rate is Affected by Tax Benefits in Hungary. As a result of certain foreign investment incentives available under Hungarian law, the profit from our Hungarian operation has been subject to a reduced income tax rate. This special tax status terminated on January 1, 2008, upon the effective date of the merger of our Hungary manufacturing operations with its Hungarian parent company which was approved in December of 2007. The tax position of our Hungarian operation continues to benefit from assets created by the restructuring of our operations in Hungary. These benefits may not be available in the future due to changes in Hungary’s political condition and/or tax laws. The reduction or elimination of these tax benefits could result in an increase in our future effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We received a substantial income tax benefit from the extraterritorial income exemption (“ETI”) under U.S. law. The ETI rules provided that a percentage of the profits from products and intangibles exported from the U.S. were exempt from U.S. tax. Effective December 31, 2006, this benefit was no longer available as the ETI was repealed by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The repeal of the ETI has increased our effective income tax rate. However, the effect of the repeal of the ETI has been offset by the effects of the increased benefit from the deduction for income from qualified domestic production activities and increased profits in certain foreign jurisdictions with reduced income tax rates. Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries. Sales of our products are dependent on customers in certain industries, particularly the telecommunications, semiconductor, automotive, automated test equipment, defense and aerospace industries. As experienced in the past, and as may be expected to occur in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries could result in decreased sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Reported Financial Results may be Adversely Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, with the adoption of SFAS 123R, we now record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants for all stock options unvested at December 31, 2005. This accounting pronouncement has had a material negative impact on our financial results. Technology companies generally, and our company specifically, have in the past relied on stock options as a major component of our employee compensation packages. Because we are required to expense options, beginning in 2005 we changed our equity compensation program to no longer grant options but instead grant restricted stock units. Furthermore, because we are required to expense options, we may be less likely to sustain profitability in the future. Our Business Depends on Our Proprietary Rights and We are Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation. Our success depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights relative to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may have in the past infringed or violated certain of our intellectual property rights. We from time to time engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In monitoring and policing our intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required to spend significant resources. We from time to time may be notified that we are infringing certain patent or intellectual property rights of others. There can be no assurance that any existing intellectual property litigation or any intellectual property litigation initiated in the future, will not cause significant litigation expense, liability, injunction against some of our products, and a diversion of management’s attention, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Compliance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is Costly and Challenging. As required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, this Form 10-K contains our managements’ certification of adequate disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007. This report on Form 10-K also contains a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. This Form 10-K also contains an attestation and report by our external auditors with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While these assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, compliance with Sections 302 and 404 is required for each future fiscal year end. We expect that the ongoing compliance with Sections 302 and 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. Any adverse results from such ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our Business Depends on the Continued Service of Key Management and Technical Personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, sales, marketing, research and development and operational personnel, including Dr. Truchard, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of senior management and key technical personnel. We have no agreements providing for the employment of any of our key employees for any fixed term and our key employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees. As a result of the impact that the adoption of SFAS 123R in our first fiscal quarter of 2006 has had on our results of operations, we have changed our equity compensation program. We now grant fewer equity instruments and the type of equity instrument is restricted stock units rather than stock options, which may make it more difficult for us to attract or retain qualified management and technical personnel, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the recruiting environment for software engineering, sales and other technical professionals is very competitive. Competition for qualified software engineers is particularly intense and is likely to result in increased personnel costs. Our failure to attract or retain qualified software engineers could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We also recruit and employ foreign nationals to achieve our hiring goals primarily for engineering and software positions. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to recruit foreign nationals at the current rate. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our existing key personnel or attracting and retaining additional key personnel. Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Manufacturing Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs. We must comply with many different governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing operations in the U.S. and in Hungary. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Our Acquisitions are Subject to a Number of Related Costs and Challenges. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions may require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Some of the existing products previously sold by some of the entities we have acquired are of lesser quality than our products and/or could contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes that could subject us to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction. Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay or Prevent an Acquisition of Us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors, prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, prohibition of stockholders to call special meetings and the requirement that the holders of at least 80% of our shares approve any business combination not otherwise approved by two-thirds of the Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Our Board of Directors adopted a new stockholders rights plan on January 21, 2004, pursuant to which we declared a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock outstanding as of May 10, 2004. This rights plan replaced a similar rights plan that had been in effect since our initial public offering in 1995. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise thereof shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to twice the then-current exercise price of the right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. We are Subject to the Risk of Product Liability Claims. Our products are designed to provide information upon which users may rely. Our products are also used in “real time” applications requiring extremely rapid and continuous processing and constant feedback. Such applications give rise to the risk that failure or interruption of the system or application could result in economic damage or bodily harm. We attempt to assure the quality and accuracy of the processes contained in our products, and to limit our product liability exposure through contractual limitations on liability, limited warranties, express disclaimers and warnings as well as disclaimers contained in our “shrink wrap” license agreements with end-users. If our products contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely, or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes, customer acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Further, we could be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Although we maintain liability insurance for product liability matters, there can be no assurance that such insurance or the contractual limitations used by us to limit our liability will be sufficient to cover or limit any claims which may occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 