Item 1A. Risk Factors The ownership of our common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this 13 Table of Contents Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have had a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. We have had a history of losses. We had a net loss of $54.0 million in 2005 and a net loss of $45.2 million in 2004. We are in the process of restructuring our operations, including the recently completed upgrading of our information systems, exiting the Precious Moments® business, reducing SG&A costs, and improving our cash flow management. However, we cannot assure that these efforts will result in our return to profitability. Even if we are able to generate a profit in the future, we may not be able to increase our profits from quarter to quarter. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, the price of our common stock may decline. Our failure to successfully refinance or amend our current credit facility could cause us to incur significant additional bank fees and would impair our ability to conduct our normal business operations. On December 21, 2005, we entered into the tenth amendment to our credit facility. This amendment provides for penalty fees if we are unable to pay the outstanding loans and letters of credit under our credit facility prior to certain dates in 2006. In addition, the credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, and our failure to maintain these ratios would constitute an event of default under the credit facility. On March 31, 2006, we entered into the eleventh amendment to our existing credit facility. This amendment reset each of Enesco’s 2006 cumulative minimum monthly EBITDA covenants effective January 30, 2006 based on our reforecast. This amendment also reduces the credit facility commitments from $75 million to $70 million and accelerates by one month, the tenth amendment fees. While we have been able to renegotiate these ratios and obtain waivers of specific covenant violations in the past, we cannot assure that we would be able to continue to do so in the future. We have entered into a commitment letter with LaSalle Business Credit, LLC, an affiliate of one of the lenders under our existing credit facility, to enter into a new $75 million credit facility. This commitment letter initially expired on January 31, 2006 but has been extended monthly through April 30, 2006. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to refinance our existing credit facility or enter into a new credit facility could severely restrict our ability to carry out our normal business operations, and as a result we may be forced to sell assets, reorganize under an appropriate bankruptcy provision, or liquidate certain strategically selected assets. Our failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and grow our business. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility, and to fund any capital expenditures we may make in the future, if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Subject to our ability to either extend our existing credit facility and/or secure replacement financing by January 1, 2007, we believe our cash flow from operations, together with available cash and available borrowings under our credit facility, will be adequate to meet future liquidity needs. However, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future that our currently anticipated long-term growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule or in an amount sufficient to enable us to service indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior credit facility. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including 14 Table of Contents our credit facility, on or before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our existing credit facility contains, and any new credit facility will most likely contain, various covenants which limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business and the failure to comply with such covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit facility contains various provisions that limit our management’s discretion by restricting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our common stock; • make investments; • incur liens; • transfer or sell assets; and • consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. We anticipate that we will be required by lenders to agree to a change in control default covenant in our replacement credit facility if our CEO and President were to resign. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility or any other subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. An event of default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. Our indebtedness imposes constraints and requirements on our business and financial performance and our compliance and performance in relationship to these could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our significant indebtedness could: • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, including penalties, which would reduce the availability of this cash to fund working capital, expansion of our business, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to obtain additional funds. We have received a delisting notice from the New York Stock Exchange, and if we are unable to comply with the conditions of our plan to meet the continued listing standards, we will be delisted, which would result in decreased liquidity and increased volatility for our common stock. We received notification from the New York Stock Exchange on September 1, 2005 that we are not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards. As a result, we submitted a plan to the NYSE demonstrating how we intend to comply with these standards over the next 18 months and are subject to quarterly monitoring for compliance with these standards. If we are unable to meet the criteria and are delisted, we may be unable to have our common stock listed on Nasdaq because of minimum stock price and other listing requirements and, as a result, we would likely have our common stock quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or the OTC BB, which would also require us to delist our common stock from the Pacific Stock Exchange. Securities that trade on the OTC BB generally have less liquidity and greater volatility than securities that trade on the NYSE and Nasdaq. In addition, because issuers whose securities trade on the OTC BB are not subject to the corporate governance and other 15 Table of Contents standards imposed by the NYSE and Nasdaq, our reputation may suffer, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our shares. The market price of our common stock has historically fluctuated and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. For example, in 2005, the lowest price for our common stock was $1.12 and the highest price for our common stock was $8.70. The market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • our ability to successfully obtain replacement financing; • the success of our efforts to reorganize our operations; • our financial performance; • our ability to maintain our listing on the NYSE; • our ability to successfully introduce new products and the popularity of our existing products; • acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; • decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories, groups or strategies that include our company or industry; and • market conditions in the industry, the financial markets, and the economy as a whole. It is likely that our operating results in one or more future quarters may be below the expectations of security analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, future stock price volatility for our common stock could provoke the initiation of securities litigation, which may divert substantial management resources and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we undergo a change in control, including the resignation or termination of our CEO and President, we may be unable to maintain our strategic alliance with Jim Shore Designs, Inc. Our strategic alliance agreement with Jim Shore Designs, Inc. focuses on key gift and seasonal categories that have been very successful for us. This agreement continues through November 22, 2008, and will be extended an additional three years, unless either party decides not to renew. However, if we undergo a “change in control,” which is defined in the agreement as including a change in the CEO and President positions, both of which are held by Cynthia Passmore, Jim Shore Designs, Inc. would be able to terminate the agreement. If the agreement were terminated, we would lose one of our most successful and growing product lines, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent upon the ability of our senior management and Keystone Consulting Group to effectively run our operations. We have been experiencing changes in our senior management team. For instance, we appointed a Chief Financial Officer in January 2005 who resigned in July 2005. We then appointed a Chief Accounting Officer to handle these functions. In addition, we have eliminated the position of Chief Operating Officer as part of our downsizing efforts. In connection with the development and implementation of our Operating Improvement Plan, we have engaged Keystone Consulting Group (Keystone), a restructuring advisor. Our engagement letter with Keystone is cancelable by either party upon written notice to the other. We are highly dependent on Keystone to assist us in implementing the Operating Improvement Plan. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to implement our business strategy is dependent upon our senior management’s ability to run our business effectively. We currently have an employment agreement with our CEO and President, but not with our other executive officers. We currently have a consulting agreement with Keystone, which expires March 31, 2006, which we are in the process of extending at least through June 30, 2006. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain any of our executives or that we will be successful in extending Keystone’s engagement following its expiration on March 31, 2006 on terms favorable to us, or that Keystone will have the resources necessary to assist us in the continued implementation of our Operating Improvement Plan. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of these persons or Keystone and the inability to attract and retain appropriately qualified replacements. In addition, as noted above, if our CEO and President resigns or is terminated, our licensing agreement with Jim Shore Designs, Inc. would be at risk of being terminated. If we cannot develop products that will appeal to customers and enter into favorable licensing agreements, we may not be able to compete effectively. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to develop new products that will appeal to consumers. Historically, we have received a substantial portion of our revenues through a small number of very successful licensing agreements. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain these critical licenses on favorable terms and to enter into new licensing agreements that will result in the introduction of successful product lines. We face significant competition for licenses, which may cause us to pay higher royalty rates and to guarantee minimum annual payments. As our most successful licenses expire, the competition for renewing these licenses could intensify significantly. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, manufacturing and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or develop and introduce, in a timely manner, innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, would harm our ability to successfully grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. Our success with our proprietary products depends, in part, on our ability to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. In addition to our proprietary designs, we obtain brand name licenses to develop product formats. Occasionally, we become involved in litigation with our licensors, such as our recently settled litigation involving Jim Shore Designs, Inc. Enforcing our rights under our licensing agreements in this manner is expensive to us, distracting to management and may strain relationships with our licensors. In addition, our ability to successfully market these products would be adversely affected if competitors were able to develop, use or sell products that are similar to our products. We have, in the past, experienced problems managing our supply chain and business processes, and our future success is dependent upon our ability to improve these functions. In 2004, we unsuccessfully attempted to implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning system intended to integrate our supply chain and business processes. As a result, we were unable to ship products, we incurred expenses related to excess inventory, and we experienced record-keeping problems involving freight billing, customer invoicing and inventory management accuracy. To remedy the situation, we were forced to incur costs related to additional personnel and consultants in 2004, which increased our labor and IT costs significantly. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to successfully manage these functions. If we are unable to do so, we would incur increased operating costs and would encounter delays in shipping our products, which would result in a potential loss of revenues and customers and 17 Table of Contents would therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the ability of NDC, a third-party logistics company, to manage our U.S. distribution and warehouse operations. As part of our Operating Improvement Plan, we have hired NDC, a third-party logistics company, to provide storage, handling, inventory management, shipping, receiving, repackaging, order processing and related clerical support for our business. These functions are critical to the success of our business, and we are entirely dependent upon NDC to perform these functions efficiently. In addition, we may incur significant costs under the agreement with NDC. Any problems that we experience in our arrangement with NDC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in our markets may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers. The markets for giftware and home and garden décor products are highly competitive. In these industries, we compete against numerous other domestic and foreign companies. Competition in the markets in which we operate is based primarily on originality of product design, quality, price, sales coverage, marketing ability, logistics and sourcing. Many of our competitors have substantially greater revenue and resources than we do. Our competitors may take actions to match our new product introductions and other initiatives. Because many of our competitors source their products from third parties, our ability to obtain a cost advantage through sourcing is reduced. Certain of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. Further, retailers often demand that suppliers reduce their prices on existing products. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced profits or losses, or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To compete effectively in the future in our markets, among other things, we must: • maintain strict quality standards; • develop new products that appeal to customers; and • deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Our inability to do any of these things well could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the trend toward retail store consolidation in the independent gift channel in the U.S. continues, our revenues may decline unless we can grow share in our core gift channel or grow revenues in alternate channels. In recent years, retail shopping patterns in the U.S. for our products have changed to include stronger sales in the mass, chain drug and grocery channels and over the Internet, while there has been consolidation of retail specialty stores in the card and gift channel. Our business strategy involves aligning our resources and leveraging our core distribution base, to gain share in four merchandise categories: decorative gifts, inspirational gifts, brand enthusiast gifts and occasion-based gifts. If we are unable to grow market share in these merchandise categories or expand in alternative channels at levels that offset the decline in sales due to the consolidation of retail stores in the specialty gift channel in the U.S., our revenues will continue to decline. 18 Table of Contents Because we do not have long-term commitments from many of our customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates could have negative effects on our inventory levels and revenues. We have more than 40,000 customers worldwide, and no single customer accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated sales in 2005. Non-seasonal purchase commitments may be made in advance of our receipt of customer orders and are often non-cancelable. It is standard practice in our industry that customer orders are subject to amendment or cancellation prior to shipment for various reasons. Our purchase commitments are made in advance of our receipt of customer orders and are often non-cancelable. As a result, we are required to estimate the inventory levels and enter into purchase commitments necessary to fulfill our orders and maximize sales. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to customer cancellations or unexpected increases in customer orders. Accordingly, we may be faced with excess inventory or the inability to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders, in which case we may incur higher expenses related to excess inventory or, alternatively, we may lose the revenue associated with the additional purchase orders and our customer relationships may suffer. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt our business operations. We currently source a significant portion of our products from third parties. Our ability to select and retain reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact our success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. We typically do not enter into long-term contacts with our primary vendors and suppliers. Instead, most of our products are supplied on a “purchase order” basis. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. Any inability of our suppliers to timely deliver quality products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to us. Our reliance on manufacturing facilities and suppliers in China could make us vulnerable to supply interruptions related to the political, legal and cultural environment in China. We do not own any of our manufacturing facilities, except on a limited basis in the United Kingdom. A significant portion of our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers in Asia, primarily the People’s Republic of China. During 2005, approximately 70% of our total product purchases were from manufacturing sources in China. Our ability to continue to select reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact our success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. Furthermore, the ability of these suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions (such as SARS or the avian flu) affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. There is no assurance that we could quickly or effectively replace any of our suppliers if the need arises. Our dependence on these suppliers could also adversely affect our ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for our products. In addition, international manufacturing is subject to significant risks, including, among other things: • labor unrest; • political and economic instability; • cost and capacity fluctuations; • delays in transportation, dockage and materials handling; • restrictive actions by governments, including nationalization of assets; • United States laws and policies affecting the importation of goods; • international political, military and terrorist developments; and 19 Table of Contents • international tax and trade laws. Labor in China has historically been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America and Europe. China has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. A substantial increase in labor costs in China could affect the price that our suppliers charge, which would lower our gross margins and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the cost or availability of raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. Pricing and availability of raw materials used in our products can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, commodity costs (such as oil based resins and pigments), and general economic conditions. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials to us, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the price of raw materials used in manufacturing our products increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to our customers. Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we have existing inventory, lower margins. As a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to sell our non-strategic business assets at favorable prices. As part of our Operating Improvement Plan, we are attempting to reduce our overall number of product lines and concentrate on products that we believe will have strong and sustainable market demand. As a result, we are currently in the process of attempting to sell some of our assets that we believe are not consistent with our strategy. There is no assurance that we will be able to sell these assets on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to wind down these operations, which would impose additional costs and management distraction on us. Our business is seasonal, which may cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of certain of our products are seasonal. For instance, we produce specially designed products for holiday season and gift-giving occasions. Our revenues will typically peak in the third calendar quarter of each year. As a result, comparisons of our results from quarter to quarter may not be meaningful and cannot necessarily be relied on as indicators of future performance. In addition, we may also experience quarterly fluctuations in our sales and income depending on various factors, including, among other things, changes in the ordering patterns of our customers during a particular quarter, and the mix of products sold. Currency fluctuations may significantly increase our expenses and affect our results of operations. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and most of our revenues are collected in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs, such as for our products, payroll, rent, and indirect operational costs, are denominated in other currencies. Changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our sales and profitability and could result in unfavorable foreign currency translations or exchange losses. For instance, if the government of China allowed the Chinese yuan to rise substantially versus the U.S. dollar, the cost of our products produced in China would rise. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. There can be no assurance that the U.S. dollar foreign exchange rates will be stable in the future or that fluctuations in financial markets will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents 