Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to purchase shares of our common stock. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the risks below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. The trading price of our common stock could, in turn, decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our Business Operations are Subject to Regulatory Uncertainties Which May Affect Our Ability to Continue Operations of Existing Nightclubs, Acquire Additional Nightclubs or Be Profitable Adult entertainment nightclubs are subject to local, state and federal regulations. Our business is regulated by local zoning, local and state liquor licensing, local ordinances and state and federal time place and manner restrictions. The adult entertainment provided by our nightclubs has elements of speech and expression and, therefore, enjoys some protection under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. However, the protection is limited to the expression, and not the conduct of an entertainer. While our nightclubs are generally well established in their respective markets, there can be no assurance that local, state and/or federal licensing and other regulations will permit our nightclubs to remain in operation or profitable in the future. Beginning January 1, 2008, our Texas clubs became subject to a new state law requiring each club to collect and pay a $5 surcharge for every club visitor. A lawsuit was filed by the Texas Entertainment Association (“TEA”), an organization to which we are a member, alleging the fee amounts to an unconstitutional tax. On March 28, 2008, a State District Court Judge in Travis County, Texas ruled that the new state law violates the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and is therefore invalid. The judge’s order enjoined the State from collecting or assessing the tax. The State appealed the Court’s ruling. In Texas, when the State gives notice of appeal, it supersedes and suspends the judgment, including the injunction. Given the suspension of the judgment, the State gave notice of its right to collect the tax pending the outcome of its appeal but has taken no affirmative action to enforce that right. On June 5, 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Third District (Austin) affirmed the District Court’s judgment, holding that the Sexually Oriented Business (“SOB”) fee violated the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, but on August 26, 2011, the Texas Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the District Court to determine whether the fee violates the Texas Constitution. 10 TEA appealed the Texas Supreme Court's decision to the U.S. Supreme Court (regarding the constitutionality of the fee under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution), but the U.S. Supreme Court denied the appeal on January 23, 2012. Subsequently, the case was remanded to the District Court for consideration of the remaining issues raised by TEA. On June 28, 2012, the District Court in Travis County held a hearing on TEA’s Texas Constitutional claims and on July 9 entered an order finding that the tax was a constitutional Occupations Tax. The Court denied the remainder of TEA’s constitutional claims. TEA is now in the process of appealing this new decision to the Texas Third Court of Appeals. We have not made any payments of these taxes since the first quarter of 2009 and plan not to make any such payments while the case is pending in the courts. However, we will continue to accrue and expense the potential tax liability on our financial statements, so any ultimate negative ruling will not have any effect on our income statement and will only affect our balance sheet. If the final decision of the courts is ultimately in our favor, as we believe it will be, then we will have a one-time gain of the entire amount previously expensed. Since the inception of the tax, we have paid more than $2 million to the State of Texas under protest for all four quarters of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, expensing it in the consolidated financial statements (except for two locations in Dallas where the taxes have not been paid, but we are accruing and expensing the liability). For all subsequent quarters, as a result of the Third Court’s 2009 decision, we have accrued the tax, but not paid the State. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2012, we have approximately $9.8 million in accrued liabilities for this tax. Patron tax expense amounted to $3.0 million, $2.9 million and $2.8 million for the years ended September 30 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our Texas clubs have filed a separate lawsuit against the State in which we raise additional challenges to the statute imposing the fee or tax, demanding repayment of the taxes we have paid under this statute. The courts have not yet addressed these additional claims. If we are successful in the remaining litigation, the amount we have paid under protest should be repaid or applied to any future, constitutional admission tax or other Texas state tax liabilities. Our Business has been, and may Continue to be, Adversely Affected by Conditions in the U.S. Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally Our nightclubs are often acquired with a purchase price based on historical EBITDA. This results in certain nightclubs carrying a substantial amount of intangible value, mostly allocated to licenses and goodwill. Generally accepted accounting principles require an annual impairment review of these indefinite lived assets. If difficult market and economic conditions continue over the next year and/or we experience a decrease in revenue at one or more nightclubs, we could incur a decline in fair value of one or more of our nightclubs. This could result in future impairment charges of up to the total value of the indefinite lived intangible assets. We May Need Additional Financing or Our Business Expansion Plans May Be Significantly Limited If cash generated from our operations is insufficient to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, we will need to raise additional funds through the public or private sale of our equity or debt securities. The timing and amount of our capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including cash flow and cash requirements for nightclub acquisitions. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then-existing shareholders will be reduced. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. Any future equity financing, if available, may result in dilution to existing shareholders, and debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. Any failure by us to procure timely additional financing will have material adverse consequences on our business operations. There is Substantial Competition in the Nightclub Entertainment Industry, Which May Affect Our Ability to Operate Profitably or Acquire Additional Clubs Our nightclubs face competition. Some of these competitors may have greater financial and management resources than we do. Additionally, the industry is subject to unpredictable competitive trends and competition for general entertainment dollars. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain profitable in this competitive industry. Risk of Adult Nightclubs Operations Historically, the adult entertainment, restaurant and bar industry has been an extremely volatile industry. The industry tends to be extremely sensitive to the general local economy, in that when economic conditions are prosperous, entertainment industry revenues increase, and when economic conditions are unfavorable, entertainment industry revenues decline. Coupled with this economic sensitivity are the trendy personal preferences of the customers who frequent adult cabarets. We continuously monitor trends in our customers' tastes and entertainment preferences so that, if necessary, we can make appropriate changes which will allow us to remain one of the premiere adult cabarets. However, any significant decline in general corporate conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we have historically catered to a clientele base from the upper end of the market. Accordingly, further reductions in the amounts of entertainment expenses allowed as deductions from income under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, could adversely affect sales to customers dependent upon corporate expense accounts. 11 Permits Relating to the Sale of Alcohol We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of alcoholic beverages. States in which we operate may have laws which may limit the availability of a permit to sell alcoholic beverages or which may provide for suspension or revocation of a permit to sell alcoholic beverages in certain circumstances. The temporary or permanent suspension or revocations of any such permits would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. In all states where we operate, management believes we are in compliance with applicable city, county, state or other local laws governing the sale of alcohol. Activities or Conduct at our Nightclubs may Cause us to Lose Necessary Business Licenses, Expose us to Liability, or Result in Adverse Publicity, Which may Increase our Costs and Divert Management’s Attention from our Business We are subject to risks associated with activities or conduct at our nightclubs that are illegal or violate the terms of necessary business licenses. Our nightclubs operate under licenses for sexually oriented businesses and some protection under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. While we believe that the activities at our nightclubs comply with the terms of such licenses, and that the element of our business that constitutes an expression of free speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is protected, activities and conduct at our nightclubs may be found to violate the terms of such licenses or be unprotected under the U.S. Constitution. This protection is limited to the expression and not the conduct of an entertainer. An issuing authority may suspend or terminate a license for a nightclub found to have violated the license terms. Illegal activities or conduct at any of our nightclubs may result in negative publicity or litigation. Such consequences may increase our cost of doing business, divert management’s attention from our business and make an investment in our securities unattractive to current and potential investors, thereby lowering our profitability and our stock price. We have developed comprehensive policies aimed at ensuring that the operation of each nightclub is conducted in conformance with local, state and federal laws. We have a “no tolerance” policy on illegal drug use in or around the facilities. We continually monitor the actions of entertainers, waitresses and customers to ensure that proper behavior standards are met. However, such policies, no matter how well designed and enforced, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the policies’ objectives are being achieved. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems and policies, there can be no assurance that our policies will prevent deliberate acts by persons attempting to violate or circumvent them. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, management believes that our policies are reasonably effective in achieving their purposes. Our Acquisitions may Result in Disruptions in our Business and Diversion of Management’s Attention We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of complementary nightclubs, restaurants or related operations. Any acquisitions will require the integration of the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and the training and motivation of these individuals. Such acquisitions may disrupt our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with current employees, customers and partners. We may also incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. These issuances could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization, or impairment costs for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. If management is unable to fully integrate acquired business, products or persons with existing operations, we may not receive the benefits of the acquisitions, and our revenues and stock trading price may decrease. We Must Continue to Meet NASDAQ Global Market Continued Listing Requirements or We Risk Delisting Our securities are currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. We must continue to satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements or risk delisting which would have an adverse effect on our business. If our securities are ever de-listed from NASDAQ, they may trade on the over-the-counter market, which may be a less liquid market. In such case, our shareholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations of the market value of shares of our common stock would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the NASDAQ continued listing requirements. In The Future, We Will Incur Significant Increased Costs as a Result of Operating as a Public Company, and Our Management Will Be Required to Devote Substantial Time to New Compliance Initiatives In the future, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. 12 In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2008, we have been required to perform system and process evaluation and testing on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Then, beginning in fiscal 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm has reported on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Uninsured Risks We maintain insurance in amounts we consider adequate for personal injury and property damage to which the business of the Company may be subject. However, there can be no assurance that uninsured liabilities in excess of the coverage provided by insurance, which liabilities may be imposed pursuant to the Texas "Dram Shop" statute or similar "Dram Shop" statutes or common law theories of liability in other states where we operate or expand. For example, the Texas "Dram Shop" statute provides a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person if it was apparent to the server that the individual being sold, served or provided with an alcoholic beverage was obviously intoxicated to the extent that he presented a clear danger to himself and others. An employer is not liable for the actions of its employee who over-serves if (i) the employer requires its employees to attend a seller training program approved by the TABC; (ii) the employee has actually attended such a training program; and (iii) the employer has not directly or indirectly encouraged the employee to violate the law. It is our policy to require that all servers of alcohol working at our clubs in Texas be certified as servers under a training program approved by the TABC, which certification gives statutory immunity to the sellers of alcohol from damage caused to third parties by those who have consumed alcoholic beverages at such establishment pursuant to the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code. There can be no assurance, however, that uninsured liabilities may not arise in the markets in which we operate which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Limitations on Protection of Service Marks Our rights to the tradenames "Rick's", "Rick's Cabaret", “Tootsie’s Cabaret”, “Club Onyx”, and “XTC Cabaret” are established under the common law based upon our substantial and continuous use of these tradenames in interstate commerce since at least as early as 1987. "RICK'S AND STARS DESIGN" logo, "RICK'S CABARET", “CLUB ONYX”, “XTC CABARET” and “EXOTIC DANCER” are registered through service mark registrations issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We also own the rights to numerous tradenames associated with our media division. There can be no assurance that these steps we have taken to protect its Service Marks will be adequate to deter misappropriation of its protected intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to protect our rights from infringement, which may be costly and time consuming. The loss of the intellectual property rights owned or claimed by us could have a material adverse affect on our business. Anti-takeover Effects of Issuance of Preferred Stock The Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, and to fix the rights and preferences of the shares constituting any series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of Preferred Stock by the Board of Directors could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. For example, such issuance could result in a class of securities outstanding that would have preferences with respect to voting rights and dividends and in liquidation over the common stock, and could (upon conversion or otherwise) enjoy all of the rights appurtenant to common stock. The Board's authority to issue Preferred Stock could discourage potential takeover attempts and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company through merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult to achieve or more costly. There are no issued and outstanding shares of Preferred Stock; there are no agreements or understandings for the issuance of Preferred Stock, and the Board of Directors has no present intention to issue Preferred Stock. We Have Not Paid Dividends on Common Shares in the Past Since our inception we have not paid any dividends on our common. Future Sales of Our Common Stock May Depress Our Stock Price The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. 13 Our Stock Price Has Been Volatile and May Fluctuate in the Future The trading price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. This price may be influenced by many factors, including: ●our performance and prospects; ●the depth and liquidity of the market for our securities; ●sales by selling shareholders of shares issued or issuable in connection with certain convertible notes; ●investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; ●changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; ●general financial and other market conditions; and ●domestic economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced, and may experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our securities. Our Management Controls a Significant Percentage of Our Current Outstanding Common Stock and Their Interests May Conflict With Those of Our Shareholders As of December 1, 2012, our Directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates collectively and beneficially owned approximately 13.4% of our outstanding common stock, including all warrants exercisable within 60 days. This concentration of voting control gives our Directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates substantial influence over any matters which require a shareholder vote, including, without limitation, the election of Directors, even if their interests may conflict with those of other shareholders. It could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the then prevailing market prices for their shares of common stock. We are Dependent on Key Personnel Our future success is dependent, in a large part, on retaining the services of Mr. Eric Langan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Langan possesses a unique and comprehensive knowledge of our industry. While Mr. Langan has no present plans to leave or retire in the near future, his loss could have a negative effect on our operating, marketing and financial performance if we are unable to find an adequate replacement with similar knowledge and experience within our industry. We maintain key-man life insurance with respect to Mr. Langan. Although Mr. Langan is under an employment agreement (as described herein), there can be no assurance that Mr. Langan will continue to be employed by us. The loss of Mr. Langan could have a negative effect on our operating, marketing, and financing performance. Cumulative Voting is Not Available to Stockholders Cumulative voting in the election of Directors is expressly denied in our Articles of Incorporation. Accordingly, the holder or holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock may elect all of our Directors. Management’s large percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock helps enable them to maintain their positions as such and thus control of our business and affairs. Our Directors and Officers Have Limited Liability and Have Rights to Indemnification Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, as permitted by governing Texas law, that our Directors and officers shall not be personally liable to us or any of our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a Director or officer, with certain exceptions. The Articles further provide that we will indemnify our Directors and officers against expenses and liabilities they incur to defend, settle, or satisfy any civil litigation or criminal action brought against them on account of their being or having been its Directors or officers unless, in such action, they are adjudged to have acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct. The inclusion of these provisions in the Articles may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against Directors and officers, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against Directors and officers for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited us and our stockholders. The Articles provide for the indemnification of our officers and Directors, and the advancement to them of expenses in connection with any proceedings and claims, to the fullest extent permitted by Texas law. The Articles include related provisions meant to facilitate the indemnitee's receipt of such benefits. These provisions cover, among other things: (i) specification of the method of determining entitlement to indemnification and the selection of independent counsel that will in some cases make such determination, (ii) specification of certain time periods by which certain payments or determinations must be made and actions must be taken, and (iii) the establishment of certain presumptions in favor of an indemnitee. Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to our directors, officers and controlling persons pursuant to the foregoing provisions, we have been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission, such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is therefore unenforceable. 14 Other Risk Factors May Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions and financial and credit markets, credit availability, increased fuel costs and availability for our employees, customers and suppliers, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events (such as reports on avian flu), consumer perceptions of food safety, changes in consumer tastes and behaviors, governmental monetary policies, changes in demographic trends, terrorist acts, energy shortages and rolling blackouts, and weather (including, major hurricanes and regional snow storms) and other acts of God. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 