ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS U.S./Global Economic Change Will Impact our Future Business. As has occurred in recent years, the markets in which we do business could again experience the negative effects of a slowdown in the U.S. and/or Global economies. The worsening of the U.S. or Global economies could result in reduced purchasing and capital spending in any of our markets which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business could also be subject to or impacted by acts of terrorism and/or the effects that war or continued U.S. military action would have on the U.S. and/or Global economies. Our business could also be impacted by public health concerns, natural disasters, disruptions to public or commercial transportation systems, political instability or similar events which result in increased difficulty or higher costs for the export of products into affected regions, the import of components used in our products from affected regions, and/or the effects the event has on the economy in regions in which we do business. We Have Established a Budget and Variations From Such Budget Will Affect our Financial Results. We have established an operating budget for 2006. Our budget was established based on the estimated revenue from forecasted sales of our products which is based in part on economic conditions in the markets in which we do business as well as the timing and volume of our new products and the expected penetration of both new and existing products in the marketplace. Our spending for 2006 could exceed our budget due to a number of factors, including: additional marketing costs for new product introductions and/or for conferences and tradeshows; increased costs from hiring more product development engineers or other personnel; additional costs related to acquisitions, if any; increased manufacturing costs resulting from component supply shortages and/or component price fluctuations and/or additional expenses related to intellectual property litigation. Any future decrease in demand for our products could result in decreased revenue and could require us to revise our budget and reduce expenditures. Exceeding our established operating budget or failing to reduce expenditures in response to any decrease in revenue could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We May Experience Component Shortages. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, supply shortages of components used in our products, including sole source components, can result in significant additional costs and inefficiencies in manufacturing. If we are unsuccessful in resolving any such component shortages in a timely manner, we will experience a significant impact on the timing of revenue, a possible loss of revenue and/or an increase in manufacturing costs, any of which would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our Quarterly Results are Subject to Fluctuation Due to Various Factors. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: o changes in the mix of products sold; o the availability and pricing of components from third parties (especially sole sources); o the timing of orders; o pricing of our products; o fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; o in the timing, cost or outcome of intellectual property litigation; o the difficulty in maintaining margins, including the higher margins traditionally achieved in international sales; o changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or suppliers. Specifically, if the local currencies in which we sell weaken against the U.S. dollar, and if the local sales prices cannot be raised due to competitive pressures, we will experience a deterioration of our gross and net profit margins. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our gross and net profit margins. As has occurred in the past and as may be expected to occur in the future, our new software products or new operating systems of third parties on which our products are based often contain bugs or errors that can result in reduced sales and/or cause our support costs to increase, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Furthermore, we have significant revenues from customers in industries such as semiconductors, automated test equipment, telecommunications, aerospace, defense and automotive which are cyclical in nature. Downturns in these industries could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In recent years, our revenues have been characterized by seasonality, with revenues typically being relatively constant in the second and third quarters, growing in the fourth quarter and being relatively flat or declining from the fourth quarter of the year to the first quarter of the following year. This historical trend may be affected in the future by the economic impact of larger orders as well as the timing of new product introductions and/or acquisitions, if any. We believe the seasonality of our revenue results from the international mix of our revenue and the variability of the budgeting and purchasing cycles of our customers throughout each international region. In addition, total operating expenses have in the past tended to be higher in the second and third quarters of each year, due to recruiting and increased intern personnel expenses. Our Success Depends on New Product Introductions and Market Acceptance of our Products. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new product introductions, and is therefore highly dependent upon timely product innovation. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis to replace declining revenues from older products, and on increasing penetration in domestic and international markets. In the past, we have experienced significant delays between the announcement and the commercial availability of new products. Any significant delay in releasing new products could have a material adverse effect on the ultimate success of a product and other related products and could impede continued sales of predecessor products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to introduce new products in accordance with announced release dates, that new products will achieve market acceptance or that any such acceptance will be sustained for any significant period. Failure of new products to achieve or sustain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our efforts to increase foreign market penetration. We are Subject to Risks Associated with our Web Site. We devote resources to maintain our Web site as a key marketing, sales and support tool and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our attempt to leverage the Web to increase sales. We host our Web site internally. Any failure to successfully maintain our Web site or any significant downtime or outages affecting our Web site could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. We Operate in Intensely Competitive Markets. The markets in which we operate are characterized by intense competition from numerous competitors, some of which are divisions of large corporations having far greater resources than we have, and we expect to face further competition from new market entrants in the future. A key competitor is Agilent Technologies Inc. (“Agilent”). Agilent offers its own line of instrument controllers, and also offers hardware and software add-on products for third-party desktop computers and workstations that provide solutions that directly compete with our virtual instrumentation products. Agilent is aggressively advertising and marketing products that are competitive with our products. Because of Agilent’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: new product introductions by competitors; product pricing; quality and performance; success in developing new products; adequate manufacturing capacity and supply of components and materials; efficiency of manufacturing operations; effectiveness of sales and marketing resources and strategies; strategic relationships with other suppliers; timing of our new product introductions; protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; the outcome of any material intellectual property litigation; general market and economic conditions; and government actions throughout the world. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We Rely on Management Information Systems and any Disruption in Such Systems Would Adversely Affect Us. We rely on three primary regional centers for our management information systems. As with any information system, unforeseen issues may arise that could affect management’s ability to receive adequate, accurate and timely financial information, which in turn could inhibit effective and timely decisions. Furthermore, it is possible that one or more of our three regional information systems could experience a complete or partial shutdown. If such a shutdown occurred it could impact our product shipments and revenues, as order processing and product distribution are heavily dependent on the integrated management information systems in each region. Accordingly, operating results in that quarter would be adversely impacted. We are working to maintain reliable regional management information systems to control costs and improve our ability to deliver our products in our markets worldwide. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. The failure to receive adequate, accurate and timely financial information could inhibit management’s ability to make effective and timely decisions. During the third quarter of 2005, we relocated our European inventory and distribution operations from our former location in a third party logistics facility in Amsterdam to our Company-owned manufacturing facility in Debrecen, Hungary. We implemented information systems to support the maintenance of inventory at this new site and the delivery of products to customers from this new location. During the first quarter of 2005, we upgraded our management information system for our current U.S. warehouse facilities. Also during the first quarter of 2005, we upgraded our European business applications suite to Oracle’s latest web-based release, 11i. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with these new systems. Difficulties with these new systems may interrupt normal Company operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. Any disruption occurring with these systems may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In 2005, we also continued to devote significant resources to the development of our web offerings. Any failure to successfully implement these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are Subject to Various Risks Associated with International Operations and Foreign Economies. International sales are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in local economies, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in the repatriation of earnings and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take actions in violations of our policies. Any violation of foreign or United States laws by our employees, contractors or agents, even if such violation is prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must also comply with various import and export regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and/or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, the regulatory environment in some countries is very restrictive as their governments try to protect their local economy and value of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. Sales made by our international direct sales offices are denominated in local currencies, and accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent of these sales is affected by changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Net of hedging results, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our consolidated sales by 3% in 2005 compared to 2004. Since most of our international operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $4.2 million for 2005 compared to 2004. If the U.S. dollar weakens in the future, it could result in our having to reduce prices locally in order for our products to remain competitive in the local marketplace. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in the future, and we are unable to successfully raise our international selling prices, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. A Substantial Majority of our Manufacturing Capacity is Located in Hungary. Our Hungarian manufacturing facility sources a substantial majority of our sales. Currently we are continuing to develop and implement information systems to support the operation of this facility. This facility and its operation are also subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including difficulty in managing manufacturing operations in a foreign country, difficulty in achieving or maintaining product quality, interruption to transportation flows for delivery of components to us and finished goods to our customers, and changes in the country’s political or economic conditions. No assurance can be given that our efforts will be successful. Accordingly, a failure to deal with these factors could result in interruption in the facility’s operation or delays in expanding its capacity, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Income Tax Rate is Affected by Tax Benefits in Hungary. As a result of certain foreign investment incentives available under Hungarian law, the profit from our Hungarian operation is currently exempt from income tax. These benefits may not be available in the future due to changes in Hungary’s political condition and/or tax laws. The reduction or elimination of these foreign investment incentives would result in the reduction or elimination of certain tax benefits thereby increasing our future effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We receive a substantial income tax benefit from the extraterritorial income exemption (“ETI”) under U.S. law. The ETI rules provide that a percentage of the profits from products and intangibles exported from the U.S. are exempt from U.S. tax. This benefit will not be available in the future as the ETI has been repealed by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. ETI will be phased out over the next year and will cease to be available as of December 31, 2006. The repeal of the ETI will increase our future effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. However, we believe that the effect of the repeal of the ETI will be offset by the effects of the expected increased benefit from the recently enacted deduction for income from qualified domestic production activities and increased profits in certain foreign jurisdictions with reduced income tax rates. Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries. Sales of our products are dependent on customers in certain industries, particularly the telecommunications, semiconductor, automotive, automated test equipment, defense and aerospace industries. As experienced in the past, and as may be expected to occur in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries could result in decreased sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Business is Dependent on Key Suppliers. Our manufacturing processes use large volumes of high-quality components and subassemblies supplied by outside sources. Several of these components are available through sole or limited sources. Sole-source components purchased include custom application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICS”), chassis and other components. We have in the past experienced delays and quality problems in connection with sole-source components, and there can be no assurance that these problems will not recur in the future. Accordingly, the failure to receive sole-source components from suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our Reported Financial Results may be Adversely Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we now record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants for all stock options unvested at December 31, 2005. This accounting pronouncement is expected to have a material negative impact on our financial results. Technology companies generally, and our company specifically, have in the past relied on stock options as a major component of our employee compensation packages. Because we are required to expense options, we have amended our equity compensation program to no longer grant options but instead grant restricted stock units. Furthermore, because we are required to expense options, we may be less likely to sustain profitability. Our Business Depends on our Proprietary Rights and we are Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation. Our success depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights relative to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may have in the past infringed or violated certain of our intellectual property rights. We from time to time engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In monitoring and policing our intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required to spend significant resources. We from time to time may be notified that we are infringing certain patent or intellectual property rights of others. There can be no assurance that any existing intellectual property litigation or any intellectual property litigation initiated in the future will not cause significant litigation expense, liability, injunction against some of our products, and a diversion of management’s attention, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Compliance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is Costly and Challenging. Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 this Form 10-K contains managements’ certification of adequate disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005. This report on Form 10-K also contains a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. This Form 10-K also contains an attestation and report by our auditors with respect to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While these assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, compliance with Sections 302 and 404 is being required for each future fiscal year end. We expect that the ongoing compliance with Sections 302 and 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. Any adverse results from such ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our Business Depends on the Continued Service of Key Management and Technical Personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, sales, marketing, research and development and operational personnel, including Dr. Truchard, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of senior management and key technical personnel. We have no agreements providing for the employment of any of our key employees for any fixed term and our key employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees. As a result of the impact that the adoption of SFAS 123R in our first fiscal quarter of 2006 is expected to have on our results of operations, we have amended our equity compensation program. We will grant fewer equity instruments and the type of equity instrument will be restricted stock units rather than stock options, which may make it more difficult to attract or retain qualified management and technical personnel, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the recruiting environment for software engineering, sales and other technical professionals is very competitive. Competition for qualified software engineers is particularly intense and is likely to result in increased personnel costs. Failure to attract or retain qualified software engineers could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We also recruit and employ foreign nationals to achieve our hiring goals primarily for engineering and software positions. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to recruit foreign nationals at the current rate. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our existing key personnel or attracting and retaining additional key personnel. Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our Manufacturing Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs. We must comply with many different governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing operations in the U.S. and in Hungary. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Our Acquisitions are Subject to a Number of Related Costs and Challenges. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions may require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Some of the existing products previously sold by the acquired entities are of lesser quality than our products and/or could contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes that could subject us to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction. Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay or Prevent an Acquisition of Us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors, prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, prohibition of stockholders to call special meetings and the requirement that the holders of at least 80% of our shares approve any business combination not otherwise approved by two-thirds of the Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Our Board of Directors adopted a new stockholders rights plan on January 21, 2004, pursuant to which we declared a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock outstanding as of May 10, 2004. This rights plan replaced a similar rights plan that had been in effect since our initial public offering in 1995. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise thereof shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to twice the then-current exercise price of the right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. Risk of Product Liability Claims. Our products are designed to provide information upon which users may rely. Our products are also used in “real time” applications requiring extremely rapid and continuous processing and constant feedback. Such applications give rise to the risk that failure or interruption of the system or application could result in economic damage or bodily harm. We attempt to assure the quality and accuracy of the processes contained in our products, and to limit our product liability exposure through contractual limitations on liability, limited warranties, express disclaimers and warnings as well as disclaimers contained in our “shrink wrap” license agreements with end-users. If future products contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes, customer acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Further, we could be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. Although we maintain liability insurance for product liability matters, there can be no assurance that such insurance or the contractual limitations used by us to limit our liability will be sufficient to cover any claims which may occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 