Item 1A. Risk Factors—Recent downgrades relating to FGIC and the placing of RAM Re on negative credit watch have adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations. Additional adverse rating agency actions with respect to FGIC or RAM Re could further harm our financial condition and results of operations, below.) A downgrade of RAM Re’s ratings below “AAA” by Standard & Poor’s or “Aa3” by Moody’s could negatively affect the value of RAM Re’s reinsurance. Under Standard & Poor’s current guidelines for assigning credit to reinsurance, if RAM Re’s rating were downgraded from “AAA” to “AA,” the credit received by RAM Re’s “AAA” rated customers for its reinsurance would be decreased from 100% to 70%. If RAM Re’s ratings by Moody’s were downgraded below “Aa3”, the amount of credit for reinsurance would be reduced from 85% to an amount less than 80% to be determined by Moody’s. Under RAM Re’s treaty contracts with its customers, the primary financial guaranty insurers, the downgrade of RAM Re’s ratings would generally allow RAM Re’s customers, after a cure period, to increase the ceding commission, which is the commission paid to a primary insurer by a reinsurer based on the amount of the 49 Table of Contents premiums ceded, or terminate the contract and either leave their existing business with RAM Re or recapture it. A downgrade of RAM Re’s ratings, the placing of RAM Re’s ratings on negative credit watch or under review for a ratings downgrade, or a decrease in the credit given for its reinsurance to the primaries could also negatively affect its ability to negotiate favorable terms with primary insurers in the future. Due to, among other things, the continuing deterioration of the credit market, rating agency actions and the decline in RAM Re’s share price, in the fourth quarter of 2007 we realized an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in RAM Re of $38.5 million. After impairment, the carrying value of our investment in RAM Re as of December 31, 2007 was $60.0 million. We expect the carrying value of our investment in RAM Re to be further reduced in the first quarter of 2008 as a result of RAM Re’s losses and/or further impairment. We will continue to evaluate this investment for possible future impairment. E. Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2007, The PMI Group and its consolidated subsidiaries had total cash and cash equivalents of $427.9 million and investments of $3.7 billion. In 2004, The PMI Group’s Board of Directors formed the Investment and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors to oversee our investment portfolio, including our unconsolidated subsidiaries, approve investment strategies, and monitor our investment performance. The U.S. companies (including PMI Guaranty) included in the consolidated financial statements, or the U.S. Portfolio, held cash and cash equivalents and investments of $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2007. We manage the fixed income portion of the U.S. Portfolio internally. The 4.2% of the U.S. Portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents) invested in common stock of publicly-traded corporations is managed by Mt. Eden Investment Advisors. We manage the U.S. Portfolio to achieve the goals of providing a predictable, high level of investment income, while maintaining adequate levels of liquidity, safety and preservation of capital. Growth of capital and surplus through long-term market appreciation are a secondary consideration. Realization of taxable capital gains is minimized and emphasis is given to credit quality, price volatility and diversification, for each investment category as well as for the portfolio as a whole. As of December 31, 2007, based on market value and excluding cash and cash equivalents, approximately 80.7% of the U.S. Portfolio was invested in fixed income securities and approximately 19.2% was invested in equity securities. 97.5% of the U.S. portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents and excluding common stocks) were rated “A” or better by at least one nationally recognized securities rating organization, and of those, 68.8% were rated “AAA,” 17.5% were rated “AA,” and 11.2% were rated “A.” The U.S. Portfolio’s fixed income portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 5.87 as of December 31, 2007. We generally do not invest in non-agency mortgage-backed securities. Investments held by The PMI Group’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the insurer investment laws of each of the states in which they are licensed. These statutes, designed to preserve insurer assets for the protection of policyholders, set limits on the percentage of assets that an insurer can hold in certain investment categories (e.g., under Arizona law, no more than 20% in equity securities) and with a single issuer (e.g., 10% under Arizona law). PMI Australia’s, PMI Europe’s, PMI Asia’s and PMI Canada’s investments are subject to the investment policies adopted by their respective boards of directors and are managed by investment advisory firms under separate investment management agreements. We regularly review these entities’ investment strategies and performances. The investment policies specify that the portfolios must be invested predominantly in intermediate-term and high-grade bonds. As of December 31, 2007, PMI Australia had $69.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.2 billion of investments which are managed by Aberdeen Fund Managers Australia Limited. The investment portfolio consists mainly of high-grade Australian currency-denominated fixed income securities issued by sovereign, 50 Table of Contents semi-government and corporate entities. As of December 31, 2007, the portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 3.62. The entire Australian bond portfolio is investment grade rated. The portfolio also contains a small allocation of investments in Australian equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, PMI Europe had $53.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $200.8 million of investments which are managed by Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited. The investment portfolio consists of Euro and British Pounds Sterling currency-denominated fixed income securities issued by sovereign, agency and corporate entities. The portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 3.9 as of December 31, 2007. PMI Europe’s portfolio did not contain investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, PMI Asia had $3.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $67.0 million of investments which are managed by Deutsche Asset Management (Hong Kong) Limited. The investment portfolio consists of Hong Kong dollar denominated fixed income securities issued by sovereign, agency and corporate entities. The portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 3.3 as of December 31, 2007. PMI Asia’s portfolio did not contain investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, PMI Canada had $9.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and $64.8 million of investments which are managed by Morgan Stanley Investment Management. The investment portfolio consists of Canadian dollar denominated fixed income securities issued by sovereign, agency and corporate entities. The portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 3.2 at December 31, 2007. PMI Canada’s portfolio did not contain investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2007. We review the investment portfolios and strategies of our unconsolidated subsidiaries on a quarterly basis. Through our representation on their boards of directors, we have a limited ability to influence their investment management decisions. F. Employees As of December 31, 2007, The PMI Group, together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries and CMG MI, had approximately 1,084 full-time and part-time employees, of which 764 persons performed services primarily for PMI, 8 were employed by PMI Guaranty, 232 were employed by PMI Australia, 36 were employed by PMI Europe, 6 were employed by PMI Asia, 12 were employed by Canada, and 26 performed services primarily for CMG MI. Our employees are not unionized and we consider our employee relations to be good. In addition, MSC had 205 temporary workers and contract underwriters as of December 31, 2007. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints, including adverse business performance, could affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. We are a holding company and conduct our business operations through our various subsidiaries. Our principal sources of funds are dividends from our insurance subsidiaries, income from our investment portfolio and funds that may be raised from time to time in the capital markets. We are largely dependent on dividends from PMI to pay dividends on our capital stock, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, to pay holding company operating expenses, to make capital investments in our subsidiaries and to purchase our common stock in the open market. State insurance regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries without the consent of the regulator. The inability of PMI and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could affect our ability to repay our debt, pay holding company expenses, continue paying dividends on our common stock and/or raise capital or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations. Factors that may affect PMI’s and our other insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to meet our capital and liquidity needs 51 Table of Contents include: adverse business circumstances, including higher levels and severity of claims experience and reduced demand for our insurance and credit enhancement products; standards and factors used by various credit rating agencies that may require the maintenance of certain levels of capital at our insurance subsidiaries; financial covenants in our credit agreement; and standards imposed by state insurance regulators relating to the payment of dividends by insurance companies. In addition to dividends, we also rely on returns from our investment portfolio to meet our capital needs. A protracted economic downturn, or other factors, could cause issuers of the fixed-income securities that we own to default on principal and interest payments, which could cause our investment returns and net income to decline and reduce our ability to satisfy all of our capital and liquidity needs. We expect that we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital in 2008. We may be unable to do so at all or pursuant only to unfavorable terms. If we are successful in raising capital, such additional capital could contain restrictive covenants and/or have a dilutive effect on our outstanding equity capital or future earnings. As a result of higher losses in 2007, higher projected losses in 2008 and growth in insurance in force, we expect that we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital in 2008 to maintain The PMI Group’s, PMI’s and our other insurance subsidiaries’ ratings. Although we do not yet know what form these capital raising activities will take, we expect to seek to raise additional capital through a variety of types of transactions, including through one or more debt or equity offerings. On an ongoing basis, we intend to explore other available alternatives to enhance our liquidity, including obtaining reinsurance for our insurance subsidiaries’ existing or future books of business, limiting the new insurance written by our insurance subsidiaries and/or the disposition of equity investments (which could include certain wholly-owned subsidiaries) or portions thereof. Given current market conditions generally and in our industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any capital raising transactions on favorable terms or at all. In addition, a rapid escalation of losses or sudden ratings downgrades could make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. Moreover, to the extent a capital raising transaction is undertaken in an effort to avoid a ratings downgrade, there can be no assurance that the transaction could be completed in a timely manner to avoid an adverse ratings agency action. The terms of a capital raising transaction could require us to agree to stringent financial and operating covenants and to grant security interests on our assets to lenders or holders of our debt securities that could limit our flexibility in operating our business or our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to obtain capital in the future. We may not be able to access additional debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any future equity offerings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. Further, any capital initiatives in the form of reinsurance, or other risk transfer transactions of our existing portfolios, would have a dilutive effect on our future earnings. A downgrade of our senior unsecured debt ratings would adversely affect our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. Our senior unsecured debt is rated “A” (CreditWatch with negative implications) by Standard & Poor’s; “A” (Rating Watch Negative) by Fitch; and “A1” (under review for possible downgrade) by Moody's. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of financing, is dependent on various factors and would be adversely affected by a deterioration of our unsecured debt ratings. Debt ratings are influenced by a number of factors, including, but are not limited to: financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers, the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure, material changes in earning trends and volatility, inability to dividend monies from subsidiaries, our competitive position, and the rating agencies views on the future earnings prospects of our insurance subsidiaries and the mortgage insurance industry. Material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors, including our recent weak financial results and continued weak earnings performance, could result in a downgrade of our debt ratings, thus increasing the cost of 52 Table of Contents and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Recent placement of our senior unsecured debt ratings on credit watch by the rating agencies increases the risk that our debt ratings may be downgraded in the near future. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Capital constraints could require us to limit our subsidiaries’ operations. Our insurance subsidiaries, to a varying degree, face or could face significant capital constraints in the form of existing or new rating agency capital requirements, regulatory risk to capital requirements, internally-imposed capital limitations in light of our company’s overall capital needs and higher than expected losses. In light of current conditions, including increasing losses and projected new insurance written in 2008, we expect that PMI’s capital requirements will likely significantly increase in 2008. In addition, in the case of PMI Australia, higher losses, declines in its investment portfolio and/or adjustments by APRA to PMI Australia’s minimum capital requirements could cause PMI Australia to fall below APRA capital requirements. To satisfy the capital requirements of PMI, we may be required to limit the operations (including new insurance written) of our insurance subsidiaries, obtain reinsurance for our insurance subsidiaries’ existing or future books of business, and/or dispose of equity investments (which could include certain wholly-owned subsidiaries) or portions thereof. Either of these events could harm our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A downgrade of the financial strength ratings of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries would adversely affect our business and prospects and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. To date, the ability of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries (including our mortgage insurance subsidiaries and PMI Guaranty) to attract new business and to compete has been highly dependent on the insurer financial strength ratings assigned to them by the rating agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries PMI, PMI Australia, PMI Europe, and PMI Guaranty hold “AA” financial strength ratings from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“Standard & Poor’s”) and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”). PMI and PMI Australia are rated “Aa2” and PMI Europe and PMI Guaranty are rated “Aa3” by Moody’s Investor’s Services (“Moody’s”). PMI Canada is rated “AA” by DBRS. The ratings of PMI Australia, PMI Europe, PMI Canada, and PMI Guaranty are dependent in part upon the capital support of PMI. A downgrade of PMI’s ratings, therefore, would likely cause a downgrade of the ratings of our other insurance subsidiaries. The objective of these ratings is to provide an opinion on an insurer's financial strength and its ability and intent to pay under its insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms. The rating agencies have indicated that they are engaged in on-going monitoring of the mortgage insurance and financial guaranty industries to assess the adequacy of, and where necessary refine, their capital models. As a result of these reviews and adverse developments in the loss experience of, and outlook for, our business: • On January 31, 2008, Moody’s placed PMI’s and PMI Australia’s “Aa2” insurance financial strength ratings and PMI Europe’s and PMI Guaranty’s “Aa3” ratings on under review for possible downgrades. Moody’s noted that its actions reflected its view that “increased loss expectations are likely to have a meaningful impact on our estimate of PMI’s US mortgage insurance portfolio” and that, because “PMI’s international franchises benefit from capital support provided by PMI US and The PMI Group . . . a downgrade of PMI’s US operations would also have negative implications for the ratings of its international subsidiaries.” • On February 14, 2008, Standard & Poor’s placed the ratings of PMI, PMI Australia, PMI Europe, and PMI Guaranty on CreditWatch with negative implications and noted that its actions were the result of a reassessment of Standard & Poor’s expectations for the mortgage insurance industry. • On February 25, 2008, Fitch placed the ratings of PMI, PMI Australia, PMI Europe, and PMI Guaranty on Rating Watch Negative and noted that its actions reflected Fitch’s “updated view on ultimate loss 53 Table of Contents expectations and its impact on the company’s capital position, particularly with respect to the company’s large exposure to Alt-A, interest-only and high LTV loans.” Fitch also expressed concern with respect to “the potential for further negative pressure on earnings for [The PMI Group] related to its significant investments in financial guaranty insurers FGIC Corp. and RAM Holdings Ltd.” Fitch stated that it “believes PMI currently has a capital shortfall at the ‘AA’ [insurer financial strength] rating” and that “[f]ailure to execute upon a [capital enhancement] plan could pressure PMI’s [insurer financial strength] rating by up to two notches in the near-term.” Determinations of ratings by the rating agencies are affected by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic conditions, economic conditions affecting the mortgage insurance industry, changes in business prospects, regulatory conditions, competition, underwriting and investment losses and the perceived need for additional capital. There can be no assurance that our mortgage insurance subsidiaries or PMI Guaranty will not be downgraded or required by one or more of the rating agencies to raise additional capital in order to maintain their ratings. As discussed above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any additional capital in the future and, to the extent that we are unable to timely raise sufficient capital in relation to increased capital needs, our mortgage insurance subsidiaries’ or PMI Guaranty’s ratings could be lowered. A ratings downgrade, or the announcement of a potential downgrade or other concern relating to the financial strength of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries or PMI Guaranty could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues, our ability to compete, our holding company debt ratings, the ratings or performance of our other insurance subsidiaries (who may receive capital support from the downgraded subsidiary), or the ratings of CMG MI. Any of these events would harm our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If PMI’s insurer financial strength rating for two out of the following three rating agencies falls below “AA-” from Standard & Poor’s or Fitch, or “Aa3” from Moody’s, investors, including the GSEs, may cease to accept PMI’s mortgage insurance products. In addition, even if only one rating agency assigns PMI a rating below “AA-” or “Aa3,” the GSEs could require PMI to limit certain activities and practices in order to remain a GSE eligible mortgage insurer. Such limitations could include the preclusion of offering captive reinsurance without the GSEs’ consent and maximum risk-to-capital ratios, either of which could harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a downgrade of PMI Europe’s financial strength ratings below specified levels would allow certain derivative counterparties to terminate their agreements, resulting in a possible payment of a settlement amount or a requirement that PMI Europe pledge collateral for the benefit of the counterparty. Recent downgrades relating to FGIC and the placing of RAM Re on negative credit watch have adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations. Additional adverse rating agency actions with respect to FGIC or Ram Re could further harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our net loss of $915.3 million in 2007 was due in significant part to our equity in losses of FGIC Corporation of $763.3 million. FGIC may continue to incur losses in 2008. Recent downgrades of FGIC as well as adverse rating agency actions with respect to RAM Re are expected to continue to adversely affect the performance of our Financial Guaranty segment, as well as our financial condition and results of operations as a whole. Historically, the abilities of FGIC and RAM Re to attract new business and to compete in the financial guaranty industry have been highly dependent on the “AAA” insurer financial strength ratings assigned to them by the rating agencies. In the fall of 2007, each of the major rating agencies began a review of the capital adequacy of the financial guaranty industry. As a result of these reviews and other developments: • On January 30, 2008, Fitch downgraded FGIC’s insurance financial strength rating from “AAA” to “AA” and placed FGIC on Credit Watch Negative. In announcing its downgrade of FGIC, Fitch stated that it believed that FGIC’s capital deficiency totaled approximately $1.3 billion and that the downgrade 54 Table of Contents was “based on FGIC’s not yet raising new capital, or having executed other risk mitigation measures, to meet Fitch's capital guidelines within a timeframe consistent with Fitch's expectations.” Fitch also stated that the downgrade and continuation of the Negative Rating Watch reflected “the significant uncertainty with respect to the company's franchise, business model and strategic direction; uncertain capital markets; the company's future capital strategy; ultimate loss levels in its insured portfolio; and the challenges in the financial guaranty market overall.” • On January 31, 2008, Standard & Poor’s downgraded FGIC from “AAA” to “AA” and placed FGIC on Credit Watch with developing implications. In announcing the downgrade, Standard & Poor’s stated that the downgrade reflected “meaningful execution and timing risk” with respect to FGIC’s capital plan and the fact that the capital plan did “not fully address projected losses.” • On February 14, 2008, Moody’s downgraded FGIC’s “Aaa” rating to “A3” which rating remains on review for possible further downgrade. Moody’s noted that its ratings action reflected “FGIC’s meaningfully weakened capitalization and business profile resulting, in part, from its exposures to the U.S. residential mortgage market.” Moody’s stated that it estimated that FGIC would require capitalization of approximately $9 billion to cover stress-case losses at the “Aaa” target level and that it estimated FGIC’s claims paying resources to be approximately $5 billion. • On February 25, 2008, Standard & Poor’s downgraded FGIC to “A” and stated that FGIC remains on Credit Watch with developing implications and that the action reflected Standard & Poor’s “current assessment of potential losses, which is higher than previous estimates.” The downgrades of FGIC’s “AAA” ratings will have a material adverse effect on FGIC’s competitive position and its ability to write new business. We believe that it is unlikely that FGIC will be able to write new financial guaranty insurance at its present “A” rating by Standard & Poor’s and “A3” rating by Moody’s. FGIC Corporation has proposed a significant restructuring of its insurance operations to the New York Insurance Department, including the organization of a new financial guaranty insurer to be domiciled in New York to provide support for the global public finance and infrastructure obligations currently insured by FGIC and to write new business to serve such markets. We do not know what form such restructuring, if any, will ultimately take or how it might impact the value of our investment. Any restructuring will require approval from the New York Insurance Department, among others. We expect that a restructuring of FGIC’s business or any other alternative business plan will require significant additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any such plan will be implemented in a manner that satisfies the rating agencies’ requirements so as to enable the new company to obtain the “AAA” rating it would need to execute its business plan. Moreover, any litigation or threats of litigation by any constituency arising out of any proposed reorganization, including claims from insureds in respect of structured finance obligations, which would continue to be insured by FGIC under the proposed reorganization, could further harm the value of our investment. The rating agencies continue to monitor FGIC’s financial position, and one or more rating agencies could further downgrade FGIC’s financial strength ratings in the near future. Any further downgrade in FGIC’s financial strength ratings could have further material adverse effects on its long-term competitive position and its prospects for future business. In addition, a downgrade of its financial strength ratings below specified levels may allow certain of FGIC’s counterparties to terminate certain agreements and cease paying FGIC premiums for the terminated credit protection, possibly resulting in a requirement that FGIC pay a settlement amount or pledge collateral for the benefit of the counterparty. Our investment in FGIC Corporation has been adversely affected by the events leading to the reductions in FGIC’s ratings as well as the downgrades themselves, and could be further harmed by any future reductions and/or any further losses at FGIC. (See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Guaranty.) 55 Table of Contents With respect to RAM Re: • On March 7, 2008, Moody’s affirmed RAM Re’s “Aa3” insurance financial strength rating with a negative outlook. Moody’s indicated that its action reflected the uncertainty regarding both the ultimate performance of mortgage and mortgage-related collateralized debt obligation exposure, as well as RAM Re’s future underwriting prospects given its reliance on the primaries for business. • On February 14, 2008, Standard & Poor’s placed RAM Re’s “AAA” rating on CreditWatch with negative implications. Standard & Poor’s stated that its actions reflected the shortfall of RAM Re’s capital cushion as of December 31, 2007, relative to projected sub-prime related losses. Any downgrade of RAM Re’s ratings by Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s could have a material adverse effect on RAM Re’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, a downgrade could allow RAM Re’s customers, after a cure period, to increase the ceding commission, which is the commission paid to a primary insurer by a reinsurer based on the amount of the premiums ceded, or terminate the contract and either leave their existing business with RAM Re or recapture it. A downgrade could also result in a decrease in the credit given for RAM Re’s reinsurance, which could impact pricing under certain existing and future contracts, which could negatively affect RAM Re’s financial condition and results of operations. In turn, our investment in RAM Re could be adversely affected by any reduction in RAM Re’s ratings. As discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, due to the continuing deterioration of the credit market, RAM Re’s financial condition and the decline in RAM Re’s share price, we realized an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in RAM Re of $38.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Changes in the rating agencies’ capital models and rating methodologies may adversely affect our business results and prospects. Changes in the rating agencies’ capital models and rating methodologies could require our insurance subsidiaries to hold more capital against specified credit risks in their insured portfolios. These requirements could place stress on our insurance subsidiaries’ ratings and force us to raise additional capital, which we may be unable to accomplish on favorable terms, in a timely manner to avoid a downgrade, or at all. The terms of any additional capital also may dilute our common stockholders’ interest in the company. Changes in the rating agencies’ capital models and rating methodology could also cause us to impose limitations on the areas and amount of new business in which we engage. These changes could adversely affect future amounts of new insurance written, and in turn our financial results and prospects. Alternatively, if we do not comply with any new requirements, our insurance subsidiaries’ insurer strength ratings could be downgraded. Any capital raising activities in which FGIC Corporation engages could significantly dilute our ownership interest in FGIC Corporation. As discussed above, FGIC Corporation has proposed a significant restructuring of its insurance operations to the New York Insurance Department, including the organization of a new financial guaranty insurer to be domiciled in New York to provide support for the global public finance and infrastructure obligations currently insured by FGIC and to write new business to serve those markets. As part of that plan, it is expected that FGIC Corporation will need to raise significant additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if available, such additional capital could be provided through the issuance by FGIC Corporation or its subsidiaries to third parties of debt or equity securities that contain rights and preferences that are senior to our common stock investment in FGIC Corporation, and could include significant operational and financial covenants that limit FGIC’s future operating and financial flexibility. Given our capital needs and resources, we do not expect to make a further investment in FGIC Corporation. Accordingly, equity securities issued by FGIC Corporation in a capital-raising transaction would result in significant dilution of our ownership interest in FGIC Corporation. 56 Table of Contents Our credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, or if we are unable to reach agreement with our lenders regarding the pledge of the capital stock of PMI, we may lose access to the facility. As discussed under Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources, below, we have reached agreement with our lenders regarding an amendment to our credit facility. The effectiveness of the amendment is subject to certain conditions, which we expect to satisfy shortly. The credit facility contains requirements to maintain certain specified financial ratios and restricts our ability to engage in certain asset dispositions or investments, including investments in certain of our subsidiaries, as well as our ability to pay dividends on our common stock over certain levels or if we are in default under the facility. The amendment to the credit facility also contains significant new events for an event of default under the facility. These covenants and event of default provisions could reduce our operating flexibility. In addition, if an event of default under the facility were to occur, we could have to repay all outstanding indebtedness and would be unable to draw on the facility, and the lenders would have the right to terminate their loan commitments under the facility. Our ability to borrow under the amended facility is subject to a number of conditions, including that the stock of PMI have been pledged in favor of the lenders under the facility (and noteholders under certain of our senior notes), in form and substance satisfactory to the administrative agent and a majority in interest of the lenders in their sole and absolute discretion. The terms of the pledge agreement have not been agreed to, and there is no assurance that we will be able to enter into a mutually agreeable pledge agreement. We expect to require additional funds in 2008, and if we were unable to borrow under the facility for any reason or were delayed in doing so, our operating flexibility would be harmed. We are dependent on the facility as a source of liquidity, and may not be able to find alternate forms of capital on favorable terms or at all. We are subject to substantial residential mortgage credit risk throughout our businesses and through our equity investees. Through our main operating businesses, we are exposed to the risk that borrowers will default on residential mortgage loans we have insured or in the case of PMI Europe, with respect to which we have written credit derivatives for which the underlying collateral is residential mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2007, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries had risk in force of $205.6 billion. In addition, FGIC has insured and written credit default swaps with respect to mortgage-backed securities. RAM Re also has substantial residential mortgage-related credit risk through the issuers of debt that it has reinsured as well as through the reinsurance of credit derivatives with underlying residential mortgage loans as collateral. These transactions subject us to all of the risks relating to the housing market, including those discussed below under “Market and economic factors have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business results and prospects”. This credit risk could cause increased losses and loss reserves, and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our European operations as well as with respect to our equity investees, FGIC Corporation and RAM Re. The rating agencies could require us to hold additional capital against insured exposures whether or not they downgrade the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. Either of these outcomes would decrease our financial strength. Our net income and earnings have become more volatile due to the application of fair value accounting, or FAS 133, to the portion of PMI Europe’s, FGIC’s and RAM Re’s credit enhancement business which is executed in credit derivative form. FAS 133 requires that credit derivative transactions be recorded at fair value. PMI Europe, FGIC and RAM Re have written credit derivatives that are subject to mark-to-market treatment under FAS 133. Since quoted 57 Table of Contents market prices for these derivative contracts are generally not available, PMI Europe, FGIC and RAM Re estimate fair value by using modeling methodologies, which are less objective than using quoted market prices. Changes in estimated fair values can be caused by general market conditions, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (e.g. impairment or improvement of specific reference entities or reference obligations). Decreases in estimated fair values relative to credit derivatives have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions. Those changes in value are reflected in our financial statements and have adversely affected our reported earnings. For example, we recorded mark-to-market losses of $16.9 million on PMI Europe’s derivative contracts in 2007. Our Financial Guaranty segment’s net loss of $731.7 million in 2007 was driven by FGIC’s and RAM Re’s $1.9 billion and $28.4 million, respectively, mark-to-market losses in 2007 related to derivative contracts. Further decreases or increases in estimated fair values in the future can affect our reported earnings. The underlying collateral for certain of these credit derivatives are residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, continued adverse conditions in the residential mortgage credit market may continue to result in mark-to-market losses. Because we establish loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance policies only upon loan defaults, our ultimate actual losses may be substantially higher than our loss reserve estimates. In accordance with GAAP for the mortgage insurance industry, we establish loss reserves for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries only for loans in default. Reserves are established for reported losses and loss adjustment expenses based on when notices of default on insured loans are received. Reserves are also established for estimated losses incurred on notices of default that have not yet been reported to us by servicers. Our mortgage insurance reserving process does not take account of the impact of future losses that could occur from loans that are not delinquent. As a result, future notices of defaults on insured loans may have a material impact on our financial results and our ultimate actual losses may be substantially higher than our loss reserve estimates. Our loss reserve estimates are subject to uncertainties and our actual losses may substantially exceed our loss reserves. Further, due to higher losses we may be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in the future. Changes in loss reserves or establishment of premium deficiency reserves may result in further volatility of net income and earnings. Loss reserves established with respect to our mortgage insurance business and PMI Guaranty are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the rate and severity of claims. The establishment of loss reserves is subject to inherent uncertainty and requires judgment by management. Our actual losses may be substantially higher than our loss reserve estimates. Continued adverse economic and other conditions and resulting uncertainty with respect to the rate and severity of claims may result in substantial increases in loss reserves in the future. Additional increases in loss reserves would negatively affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition relating to FGIC Corporation and RAM Re are similarly subject to risks that those companies’ loss reserves may not be sufficient to cover losses or may increase in the future. We perform premium deficiency analysis using assumptions based on our best estimates when the analysis is performed. The calculation for premium deficiency requires significant judgment and includes estimates of future expected premiums, expected claims, loss adjustment expenses, investment income, and maintenance costs as of the date of the analysis. To the extent losses are higher or expected premiums are lower than our estimates, we could be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in the future, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 58 Table of Contents Market and economic factors have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business results and prospects. National or regional recessions, changes in interest rate levels, continued stress in the credit and capital markets, rate adjustments under adjustable rate mortgages, a continued downturn in the U.S. housing market (especially further home price declines), higher unemployment rates, higher levels of consumer debt, deteriorating borrower credit, changes in domestic and international laws, intervention by governments in financial markets, wars, terrorist acts and other events could negatively impact the performance of our insured portfolios and our investment portfolio by causing increases in losses and loss reserves in our insured portfolios and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a continued downturn in our business may make it difficult for us to attract or retain our employees, which could harm our business. As discussed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we increased PMI’s net loss reserves in 2007 as a result of the increase in PMI’s default inventory, higher claim rates and higher average claim sizes. Higher claim rates were driven in part by home price declines and the diminished availability of certain loan products, both of which constrain refinancing opportunities and decrease the cure rate. The increase in PMI’s average claim sizes was driven by higher loan sizes and coverage levels in PMI’s portfolio, as well as declines in home prices, which limit PMI’s loss mitigation opportunities. Our loss experience significantly increased in 2007 and we expect it to increase in 2008 as a result of the severe downturn in the housing and mortgage markets and changes in economic conditions. Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices may not anticipate all risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of unforeseen risks. We have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to borrower default risk in our insured portfolio by anticipating future risks and the magnitude of those risks. To the extent that a risk is unforeseen or is underestimated in terms of magnitude of loss, these policies and practices will not insulate us from the effects of those risks. When establishing loss reserves, we rely on models that have been developed internally and by third parties to analyze and predict estimated losses relating to our current inventory of loans in default. Flaws in these models and/or in assumptions used by these models could lead to increased losses and loss reserving. The premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on insured loans and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. We charge premium rates in effect at the time a policy is issued based upon our expectations regarding likely performance over the life of insurance coverage. We generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy. As a result, the impact of unanticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums we charge on our insurance in force may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated claims could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. PMI’s primary new insurance written and risk in force includes: • Loans with LTVs exceeding 97%, known as Above-97s. As of December 31, 2007, 24.6% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Above-97s. As of March 31, 2008, we are no longer insuring Above-97s through our primary flow channel. • ARMs. As of December 31, 2007, 12.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of ARMs. • 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. As of December 31, 2007, 3.3% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of 2/28 Hybrid ARMs all of which was originated through PMI’s structured finance channel. 59 Table of Contents • Alt-A loans. As of December 31, 2007, 22.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Alt-A loans. • Interest only loans. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that approximately 14.2% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of interest only loans. • Payment option ARMs. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that approximately 3.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of payment option ARMs. • Less-than-A quality mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2007, 8.1% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of less-than-A quality loans. We expect higher default and claim rates for high LTV loans, ARMs, 2/28 Hybrid ARMs, Alt-A loans, interest only loans, payment option ARMs, and less-than-A quality loans. We also insure loans that have more than one of the above risk characteristics. Approximately 2.9% of PMI’s risk in force consists of Above-97s that are less-than-A quality loans. Approximately 4.0% of PMI’s risk in force consists of Alt-A loans that are also Above-97s. This “layering” of risk has, in recent experience, further increased the risk of borrower default. Although we attempt to incorporate the higher default and claim rates associated with these loans into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. Worsening economic conditions and/or additional house price declines could significantly increase the default risks associated with these loans. PMI’s loss experience may increase as its policies continue to age. Generally, we expect the majority of losses and LAE on insured loans in PMI’s current portfolio to occur during the second through the fourth years after loan origination. Primary insurance written from the period of January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006 represented 45.6% of PMI’s primary risk in force as of December 31, 2007. Accordingly, a significant percentage of the primary portfolio is in, or approaching, its peak claim years. We believe our loss experience could increase as these policies age. If the claim frequency on PMI’s risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting premium rates, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Geographic concentration of PMI’s primary insurance in force could increase claims and losses and harm our financial performance. We would be affected by economic downturns, natural disasters and other events in specific regions of the United States where a large portion of our U.S. business is concentrated. As of December 31, 2007, 10.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force was located in Florida and 8.1% was located in California. We are currently experiencing accelerated delinquency and loss development in those states. As of December 31, 2007, 16.3% of U.S. policies in force related to loans located in Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio. Collectively these states experienced higher default rates in 2007 than other regions of the U.S. as a result of relatively weak economic activity. We delegate underwriting authority to mortgage lenders which could cause us to insure mortgage loans that do not conform to our underwriting guidelines, and thereby increase claims and losses. A significant percentage of PMI’s new insurance written is underwritten pursuant to a delegated underwriting program under which, subject to periodic audit, certain mortgage lenders may determine whether mortgage loans meet our program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. We may expand the availability of delegated underwriting to additional customers. Because PMI does not review the underwriting determinations on all loans, claims may be paid on certain loans with unacceptable risk profiles or which failed to meet approved underwriting guidelines at the time of origination. 60 Table of Contents If the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations declines, the number of mortgage loans purchased by the GSEs declines, or the volume of privately issued mortgage-backed securities declines, the amount of insurance that PMI writes could decrease, which could result in a decrease of our future revenue. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations could reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and consequently, our revenues. The volume of low down payment mortgage originations is affected by, among other factors: the level of home mortgage interest rates; domestic and regional economic conditions; consumer confidence; housing affordability; the rate of household formation; the rate of home price appreciation, which in times of heavy refinancing affects whether refinance loans have loan-to-value ratios that require private mortgage insurance; the availability of low down payment mortgages, which is influenced by the demand for mortgage-backed securities and government housing policy. A significant decline in the demand for privately issued mortgage-backed securities and significant pricing and underwriting changes we introduced negatively affected PMI’s insurance written in 2007. We expect this trend to continue in 2008, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The GSEs are principal beneficiaries of PMI’s flow mortgage insurance policies. Accordingly, factors affecting the GSEs’ market share can also affect our business. In particular, the decline in 2005 and 2006 in the number of low down payment mortgage loans purchased by the GSEs adversely affected our revenues from this channel. The GSEs lost market share in 2005 and 2006 due in part to higher percentages of less-than-A loans, adjustable rate mortgages, which we refer to as ARMs, and reduced documentation loans originated in 2005 and 2006. Although the GSEs gained market share in 2007 as the result of a decrease in privately issued mortgage- backed securities not guaranteed by the GSEs, subsequent decreases in the mortgage loans purchased by the GSEs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We could lose premium revenue if the GSEs reduce the level of private mortgage insurance coverage required for low down payment mortgages or reduce their need for mortgage insurance. The GSEs are the beneficiaries on a significant portion of the insurance policies we issue as a result of their purchases, statutorily required or otherwise, of qualifying mortgage loans from lenders or investors. Depending on market conditions and the GSEs’ expectations of default risk, they have from time-to-time offered programs that require less mortgage insurance for certain mortgages that have been approved by their automated underwriting systems or for specific expanding markets programs. If the GSEs reduce their required levels of mortgage insurance, PMI’s NIW and premium revenue could decline and our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could suffer. The GSEs have recently announced pricing increases and tighter product eligibility rules with respect to low down payment mortgages that they purchase. These pricing and eligibility changes and any future changes could decrease the volume of low down payment mortgages purchased by the GSEs which could, in turn, decrease the amount of new insurance we write. If interest rates decline, home values increase or mortgage insurance cancellation requirements change, the length of time that PMI’s policies remain in force and our revenues could decline. A significant percentage of the premiums PMI earns each year is generated from insurance policies written in previous years. As a result, a decrease in the length of time that PMI’s policies remain in force could cause our revenues to decline. Factors that lead to borrowers canceling their mortgage insurance include: current mortgage interest rates falling below the rates on the mortgages underlying insurance in force, which frequently results in borrowers refinancing their mortgages; appreciation in the values of the homes underlying the mortgages we insure (which could reduce the need for mortgage insurance or increase the probability of refinancing the existing mortgage); and the availability of alternative loan products, which provide borrowers with the opportunity to at least temporarily decrease their monthly loan payments. 61 Table of Contents If mortgage lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance, the amount of insurance that we write could decline, which could reduce our revenues and profits. Between 2002 and 2006, U.S. mortgage lenders increasingly structured mortgage originations to avoid private mortgage insurance, primarily through the use of so called simultaneous seconds, piggybacks, 80/10/10s, 80/15/5s or 80/20 loans. Such mortgages are structured to include a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a second mortgage with a loan-to-value ratio ranging from 5% to 20%. The volume of these loans, or variations thereof, as alternatives to loans requiring mortgage insurance decreased in 2007 but could increase in the future. Other alternatives to private mortgage insurance include: • government mortgage insurance programs, including those of the FHA and the VA; • member institutions providing credit enhancement on loans sold to a FHLB; • lenders and investors holding mortgages in their portfolios and self-insuring; • mortgage lenders maintaining lender recourse or participation with respect to loans sold to the GSEs; and • investors using internal credit enhancements, such as credit default or interest rate swaps, over collateralization and subordination, as partial or complete substitutes to private mortgage insurance in mortgage-backed securitizations. These alternatives, or other alternatives to private mortgage insurance that may develop, could reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Although the FHLBs are not required to purchase insurance for mortgage loans, they currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan-to-value ratio above 80%. If the FHLBs were to purchase uninsured mortgage loans or increase the loan-to-value ratio threshold above which they require mortgage insurance, the market for mortgage insurance could decrease and we could be adversely affected. The risk-based capital rule applicable to the GSEs may allow large financial entities such as banks, financial guarantors, insurance companies, and brokerage firms to provide or arrange for products that may efficiently substitute for some of the capital relief provided to the GSEs by private mortgage insurance. Our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if the GSEs were to use these products in lieu of mortgage insurance. Our revenues and profits could decline if PMI loses market share as a result of industry competition or if our competitive position suffers as a result of our inability to introduce and successfully market new products and programs. The principal sources of PMI’s competition include: other private mortgage insurers, several of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of public companies with direct or indirect capital reserves that provide it with potentially greater resources than we have, as well as the various alternatives to private mortgage insurance discussed above. See “If mortgage lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance, the amount of insurance that we write could decline, which could reduce our revenues and profit,” above. Future entrants to the mortgage insurance industry, if any, could negatively affect our market share and revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete with other private mortgage insurers, other external credit enhancers and the various other private mortgage insurance alternatives, or if we experience delays in introducing competitive new products and programs or if these products or programs are less profitable than our existing products and programs, our business will suffer. The significant pricing and underwriting guideline changes we have recently instituted could cause us to lose revenue and market share. See Item 1(B)(6). U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations – Risk Management, above. If our revenues decline, we may be unable to replenish PMI’s investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is reduced to pay claims. 62 Table of Contents We reinsure a portion of our mortgage insurance default risk with lender-affiliated captive reinsurance companies, which reduces our net premiums written and earned. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, offer products to lenders that are designed to allow them to participate in the risks and rewards of the mortgage insurance business. Many of the major mortgage lenders have established affiliated captive reinsurance companies. These captive reinsurance companies assume a portion of the risks associated with the lender’s insured mortgage loans in exchange for a percentage of the associated gross premiums. Because a number of our major customers have made the business decision to participate in the mortgage insurance business by establishing reinsurance companies, we believe that if we did not offer captive reinsurance agreements, our competitive position would suffer. Captive reinsurance agreements negatively impact our net premiums written and earned. Our business and financial performance could suffer if PMI were to lose the business of a major customer. Through their various origination channels, PMI’s top ten customers accounted for 52.0% of its premiums earned in 2007. A particular single customer represented 14.5% of its earned premiums in 2007. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, may acquire significant percentages of their business through negotiated, structured finance transactions with a limited number of customers. The loss of a significant customer for any reason could reduce our revenue, and if not replaced, harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. The GSEs have issued eligibility requirements for qualified mortgage insurers, including PMI. Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements apply only to borrower paid and lender paid mortgage insurance. The GSEs’ eligibility requirements cover substantially all areas of PMI’s mortgage insurance operations, require the disclosure of certain activities and new products, give the GSEs the right to purchase mortgage insurance from other than existing approved mortgage insurers, including insurers that are either rated below “AA” or are unrated, and provide the GSEs with rights to revise the eligibility standards of insurers. The exercise of rights under the eligibility requirements, future changes to the requirements, or the purchase directly by the GSEs of mortgage insurance from insurers not subject to its eligibility requirements could reduce our operational flexibility, could increase the number of companies with which we compete and cause our profitability to suffer. Changes to the risk-based capital rule issued by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight could cause PMI’s business to suffer. The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, the agency which currently regulates the GSEs, or OFHEO, has issued risk-based capital rules that prescribe treatment of credit enhancement issued by private mortgage insurers and provides capital guidelines for the GSEs in connection with their use of other types of credit protection counterparties in addition to mortgage insurers. The OFHEO rules require the GSEs to hold different amounts of capital against mortgage insurance coverage according to the rating of the mortgage insurance company that has issued the policy. The capital levels vary by ratings category, i.e. “AAA” versus “AA.” Currently, as U.S. based mortgage insurers are all rated within the “AA” category, the GSEs hold equal amounts of capital against each mortgage insurer’s policies. If PMI’s ratings were to fall below the “AA” category, the GSEs would be required to hold a larger amount of capital against PMI issued policies and our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legislation and regulatory changes, including changes impacting the GSEs, could significantly affect PMI’s business and could reduce demand for private mortgage insurance. Mortgage origination transactions are subject to compliance with various federal and state consumer protection laws, including RESPA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, FCRA, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and others. Among other things, these laws 63 Table of Contents prohibit payments for referrals of settlement service business, require fairness and non-discrimination in granting or facilitating the granting of credit, require cancellation of insurance and refunding of unearned premiums under certain circumstances, govern the circumstances under which companies may obtain and use consumer credit information, and define the manner in which companies may pursue collection activities. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect the operations and profitability of our mortgage insurance business. Congress may approve proposed legislation this year that would overhaul the GSEs’ existing regulatory structure. The legislation, as currently proposed, encompasses substantially all of the GSEs’ operations, including their affordable housing initiatives, the GSEs’ products and marketing activities, the GSEs’ loan limits, the GSEs’ minimum capital standards, and their risk-based capital requirements. Congress may choose to draft legislation in such a way that might limit the growth of the GSEs, which could result in a reduction in the size of the mortgage insurance market. It could also provide the GSEs with alternatives to the use of mortgage insurance. We do not know what form, if any, the legislation will take, or when it will be enacted. In February 2008, Congress passed and the President signed into law an economic stimulus package that temporarily raises the FHA base loan limit (“floor”) to 65% of the current GSE limit or $271,050 and temporarily raises the maximum FHA loan limit from $362,750 to $729,750. Permanent changes to FHA loan limits are being considered in Congress that would also lower minimum down-payment requirements. Further increases in the amount that the FHA can insure could cause future demand for private mortgage insurance to decrease. Congress is considering and may pass additional legislation to modernize the FHA program this year. Legislation to reform the FHA may include a further increase in the FHA’s base maximum loan limits, enhanced product innovation and a provision allowing FHA to use risk-based pricing when setting its mortgage insurance premiums. Depending upon the final details, these features have the potential to make the FHA program more competitive, which could result in reduced demand for private mortgage insurance. We do not know what form such legislation will take, if any, or, if it is enacted, its impact, if any, on our financial condition and results of operations. In November 2007, HUD submitted a new proposed rule under RESPA to the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review which includes a new Good Faith Estimate and HUD-1 Settlement Statement. On February 6, 2008, OMB completed its review of the proposed rule and released it to Congress for review prior to release for publication and public comment. We do not know what final form, if any, the rule will take or whether it will be approved. In December 2006, Congress passed and the President signed into law The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, which includes a provision that treats certain premiums paid or accrued for mortgage insurance in connection with mortgage insurance contracts issued after December 31, 2006 as qualified residence interest and, thus, tax deductible. The amount allowable as a deduction under the provision is phased out ratably by 10% for each $1,000 by which the taxpayer’s adjusted gross income exceeds $100,000. In December 2007, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Mortgage Debt Relief Act of 2007, which extends this deduction to December 31, 2010. If the provision is not extended beyond 2010, any positive impact from the legislation will cease. The implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord may limit the domestic and international use of mortgage insurance. The Basel II Capital Accord, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s proposal to implement a new international capital accord, will affect the capital treatment provided to mortgage insurance by domestic and international banks in both their origination and securitization activities. Accordingly, the Basel II provisions related to residential mortgages and mortgage insurance could alter the competitive positions and financial performance of mortgage insurers as well as the capital available to our bank customers for their mortgage origination and securitization activities. 64 Table of Contents PMI’s opportunities to participate in structured transactions, and U.S. financial institutions preferences with respect to mortgage insurance, may be significantly impacted by the implementation in the United States of Basel II and any interim capital accord. U.S. federal banking agencies have jointly announced that the U.S. implementation of the Advanced Internal Rating Based (A-IRB) approach of Basel II by large internationally active banking organizations will be fully implemented in 2009. U.S. bank supervisors have indicated that private mortgage insurance policies will be considered as a credit risk mitigant for banking organizations computing minimum capital requirements under the A-IRB approach. In addition, Federal Banking regulators have announced their intent to implement a standardized version of Basel II for mid-sized and small banks. No timetable for these proposed regulations has been announced. The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, or APRA, the primary regulator of our Australian mortgage insurance operations, implemented Basel II capital requirements for automated deposit taking institutions, or ADIs, effective January 1, 2008. Such implementation may have a significant impact on the future market acceptance of mortgage insurance in Australia. APRA’s Basel regulations could reduce the available market for mortgage insurance among our Australian mortgage insurance operation’s ADI customers because of reduced capital relief provided by the regulations for the use of mortgage insurance. In 2005, the European Union adopted new legislation, the Capital Requirements Directive, or CRD, which provides a revised framework for EU member states’ banking supervisors to implement new Basel II risk based capital guidelines starting in 2007. The CRD prescribes standard criteria for credit risk mitigation instruments that are eligible to provide banks with risk-based capital relief. Currently, under the transposition of the CRD into national laws, several EU member states have recognized mortgage insurance as a credit risk mitigant. We believe the CRD facilitates recognition of mortgage insurance benefits for European banks under certain circumstances. The implementation of the CRD into the regulatory framework of EU member states is subject to further clarification by the European Commission. The European Commission has given guidance on the use of mortgage insurance as a credit risk mitigant in two ways, through commentary and publication of questions and answers, both of which recognize mortgage insurance as unfunded credit protection and a credit risk mitigant under the CRD. As a result of the deterioration of the U.S. mortgage market, the European Commission has announced it will be re-examining the CRD. Our consolidated results of operations and cash flows could suffer if demand for our mortgage insurance products is diminished as a result of the implementation of the Basel II or through the re-examination of the CRD by the European Union. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to litigation risk. The mortgage insurance industry and PMI face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Consumers are bringing a growing number of lawsuits against home mortgage lenders and settlement service providers. In recent years, mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation alleging violations of RESPA and FCRA. Additionally, in recent years mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation with policyholders regarding the rescission of mortgage insurance coverage on individual loans under the terms of the insurer’s master policies where the mortgage insurer discovered misrepresentations by, for example, a borrower, lender or an agent of the lender. We cannot predict whether actions of these types, or other actions, will be brought against us or other mortgage insurers in the future. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In the past, a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers, including PMI, under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have provided products or services at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. RESPA precludes PMI from providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, 65 Table of Contents in exchange for the referral of settlement services. The outcome of any such future proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation relating to capital markets transactions and securities-related matters in general has increased and is expected to continue to increase as a result of the deterioration of the capital, credit, housing and mortgage markets. In March 2008, we and certain of our executive officers were named in a securities class action complaint, alleging that we and the other defendants have violated various provisions of the securities laws by making false and misleading statements about our business and financial results. (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings) Our share price has dropped significantly over the past year, and although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending these claims or that additional claims will not be made. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be costly to defend and require significant amounts of management time. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to regulatory risk and have been subject to recent scrutiny relating to the use of captive reinsurance arrangements and other products and services. PMI and the mortgage insurance industry are also subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation by state insurance departments. Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad powers to supervisory agencies and officials to examine and investigate insurance companies and to enforce rules or exercise discretion touching almost every aspect of PMI’s business. The insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities concerning certain practices, including captive reinsurance arrangements. PMI has responded to requests from the New York Insurance Department (NYID) and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for information regarding its captive reinsurance arrangements. We are currently responding to a request for documents and demand for answers to interrogatories from the Minnesota Department of Commerce that we received in March 2008. As a result of the deterioration of the housing and mortgage markets in the U.S., regulatory oversight of our insurance subsidiaries may significantly increase in the future. Increased federal or state regulatory scrutiny could lead to new legal precedents, new regulations or new practices, or regulatory actions or investigations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We cannot predict whether the NYID’s requests or the Minnesota Department of Commerce’s administrative subpoenas will lead to further inquiries, or investigations, of these matters, or the scope, timing or outcome of any inquiry or actions by those Departments or any inquiry or actions that may be commenced by state insurance departments, attorneys general or other regulators. If we are unable to keep pace with the technological demands of our customers or with the technology-related products and services offered by our competitors, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Participants in the mortgage lending and mortgage insurance industries rely on e-commerce and other technology to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide our products and services electronically via the Internet or electronic data transmission, and the percentage of our new insurance written and claims processing which is delivered electronically has increased. We expect this trend to continue, and accordingly, we believe that it is essential that we continue to invest substantial resources in maintaining electronic connectivity with our customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technology. Our business may suffer if we do not keep pace with the technological demands of our customers and the technological capabilities of our competitors. 66 Table of Contents If we fail to properly underwrite mortgage loans when we provide contract underwriting services, we may be required to provide monetary and other remedies to the customer. We provide contract underwriting services for a fee. As a part of the contract underwriting services, we provide monetary and other remedies to customers in the event that we fail to properly underwrite a mortgage loan. As a result, we assume risk in connection with our contract underwriting services. Generally, the remedies provided are in addition to those contained in PMI’s master policies. Contract underwriting services apply to a significant percentage of PMI’s insurance in force and the costs relating to the investigation and/or provision of remedies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Worsening economic conditions or other factors that could increase default rates could also cause the number and severity of remedies to increase. Our international insurance subsidiaries subject us to numerous risks associated with international operations. We have operations in Australia, New Zealand, Europe, Hong Kong, and Canada. We have committed significant resources to expand our international operations. In addition to the general economic and insurance business-related factors discussed above, we are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities. These risks include: limitations on our ability to provide our international operations with additional capital should such capital be necessary or desirable, the need for regulatory and third-party approvals; challenges in attracting and retaining key foreign-based employees, customers and business partners in international markets; economic downturns in targeted foreign mortgage origination markets; interest rate volatility in a variety of countries; unexpected changes in foreign regulations and laws; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; potential increases in the level of defaults and claims on policies insured by foreign-based subsidiaries; and the need to successfully develop and market products appropriate to the foreign market, including the development and marketing of credit enhancement products to European lenders and for mortgage securitizations. (See, also, A downgrade of the financial strength ratings of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries would adversely affect our business and prospects and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition and Capital constraints could require us to limit our subsidiaries’ operations, above.) We do not currently hedge foreign currency exposures of net investments in our foreign operations. If the spot exchange rates of the U.S. dollar relative to other applicable foreign currencies change, our net investment in our foreign operations will be impacted. Foreign currency translation gains in accumulated other comprehensive income were $281.0 million as of December 31, 2007. This cumulative foreign currency translation gain benefits PMI’s statutory surplus as PMI Australia and PMI Europe are its wholly-owned subsidiaries. A weakening of the spot exchange rates of currencies in countries where we operate relative to the U.S. dollar will negatively affect our foreign operations’ net investment, PMI’s statutory surplus and, consequently, PMI’s potential ability to pay dividends to its parent. PMI Australia is subject to many of the same risks facing PMI. PMI Australia is subject to many of the same risks facing PMI, including the following: • Ratings-related risks. PMI Australia is currently rated “AA” by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch and “Aa2” by Moody’s. These ratings are based in part upon a capital support agreement between PMI and PMI Australia and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Termination or amendment of this support structure or rating agency actions adversely affecting PMI, could negatively impact PMI Australia’s ratings. Any negative impact on its ratings will negatively affect , and customer expectations of a future negative ratings impact could negatively affect, PMI Australia’s financial results. • Deteriorating economic conditions. Like PMI, the financial results of PMI Australia are affected by domestic and regional economic conditions, including movements in interest and unemployment rates 67 Table of Contents and property value fluctuations. These economic factors could impact PMI Australia’s loss experience or the demand for mortgage insurance in the markets PMI Australia serves. The largest portion of PMI Australia’s risk in force is concentrated in the populous state of New South Wales, where default rates were highest in 2007. A significant increase in PMI Australia’s claims could harm our financial condition and results of operations. (See Regulatory risk, below.) In addition, a deterioration in the credit markets has caused a decrease in activity in the Australian mortgage-backed securities market, which has adversely affected PMI Australia’s participation in those markets in 2007 and is expected to continue to do so in 2008. • Risks relating to loss of significant customers. PMI Australia’s five largest customers provided 61.0% of PMI Australia’s 2007 gross premiums written in 2007, compared to 57.6% in 2006. Given the relative concentration of PMI Australia’s business, future losses of significant customers’ business, if not replaced, could harm PMI Australia’s results of operations. • Regulatory risk. PMI Australia is subject to significant regulation. PMI Australia’s primary regulator, APRA, has the authority to, among other things, increase the capital requirements for lenders mortgage insurance companies, change the licensing requirements for acceptable lenders mortgage insurers and increase compliance and governance requirements for general insurers, including lenders mortgage insurers. Any of these regulatory actions could significantly and negatively impact PMI Australia’s business and our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, APRA is currently reviewing its lender mortgage insurer licensing requirements. Further, higher losses, declines in PMI Australia’s investment portfolio, or adjustments by APRA to PMI Australia’s minimum capital requirements could cause PMI Australia to fall below APRA capital requirements. If such an event were to occur, APRA could, among other things, require PMI Australia to cease writing new business until a remediation plan has been approved by APRA. There can be no assurance that APRA would approve any remediation plan we proposed or that we could successfully execute such plan if approved. • Competition. PMI Australia is subject to significant competition and could be subject to increased competition in the future. Such competition may take a number of forms including domestic and off-shore lenders mortgage insurers, reinsurers of residential mortgage credit risk, increased risk appetite from lender owned captive insurers, and non-insurance forms of credit risk transfer. New market competitors have the potential to impact PMI Australia’s market share and to impact pricing of credit risk in the market as a whole. Liquidity and capital market conditions could decrease the size of the mortgage origination and lenders mortgage insurance markets in 2008. We may not be able to execute our strategy to expand our European operations. As a result of changes in the value of its credit derivative contracts, PMI Europe’s financial results were volatile in 2007 and we expect this trend to continue in 2008. See Our net income and earnings have become more volatile due to the application of fair value accounting, or FAS 133, to the portion of PMI Europe’s, FGIC’s and RAM Re’s credit enhancement business which is executed in credit derivative form. In the past we have dedicated an increasing amount of resources to expand our European operations. Capital constraints in the future, including those resulting from an overall deterioration of our business, may prevent us from continuing to expend such resources, which in turn may limit PMI Europe’s ability to engage in capital intensive transactions in 2008 and thereafter. PMI Europe is currently rated “AA” by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch and “Aa3” by Moody’s. These ratings are based in part upon a capital support agreement between PMI and PMI Europe and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Termination or amendment of this support structure, or rating agency actions adversely affecting PMI, could negatively impact PMI Europe’s ratings. Any negative impact on its ratings will negatively affect its financial results. 68 Table of Contents PMI Europe also may face increased competition from other, more highly-capitalized mortgage insurers and third party credit enhancement providers in 2008. See, “The implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord may limit the domestic and international use of mortgage insurance,” above. PMI Asia could be negatively affected by adverse rating agency actions relating to PMI or PMI Europe. The payment of valid claims by PMI Asia under its reinsurance agreements is guaranteed by PMI Europe. PMI Asia is not rated by the rating agencies. PMI Europe is currently rated “AA” by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch and “Aa3” by Moody’s. These ratings are based in part upon a capital support agreement between PMI and PMI Europe and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Rating agency actions adversely affecting PMI’s or PMI Europe’s ratings could negatively impact PMI Asia’s ability to attract and retain customers and, therefore, could negatively affect its financial results. We may not be able to execute our strategy to develop our Canadian operations. We have devoted resources to develop our Canadian operations, PMI Canada. We plan to continue these efforts but capital constraints at our business as a whole may limit our efforts. In 2007, we applied for a provincial license with the province of Quebec. Our license application has not been approved and the Quebec authorities have indicated that they may not grant PMI Canada’s request for the provincial license until our U.S. mortgage insurance operations stabilize. There can be no assurance that PMI Canada will obtain this license in 2008 or thereafter. PMI Canada’s ability to compete in the Canadian mortgage insurance market has been, and will continue to be, negatively affected by its lack of such a license. PMI Canada is rated “AA” by DBRS. This rating is based in part upon a capital support agreement between PMI and PMI Canada. Termination or amendment of this support structure, or rating agency actions adversely affecting PMI, would likely negatively impact PMI Canada’s ratings. Any negative impact on its ratings will negatively affect its financial results. Competition in the Canadian mortgage insurance market is intense. Such competition may take a number of forms, including domestic mortgage insurers, substitute products or self insurance for unregulated lenders. A number of internationally-active mortgage insurers are entering or have stated their intent to enter the Canadian market. We do not expect PMI Guaranty to be a significant source of net income in 2008. PMI Guaranty began operations during the fourth quarter of 2006. As of December 31, 2007, PMI Guaranty had net reinsured par outstanding of $933.3 million and directly insured par outstanding of $29.6 million. We do not expect PMI Guaranty to be a significant source of net income in 2008. PMI Guaranty’s financial strength is currently rated “AA” by Fitch Ratings, “AA” by Standard & Poor’s and “Aa3” by Moody’s Investors Service. These ratings are based in part upon a capital support agreement between PMI Guaranty and PMI and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Termination or amendment of this support structure, or rating agency actions adversely affecting PMI, could negatively impact PMI Guaranty’s ratings. PMI Guaranty’s ability to engage in the financial guaranty insurance and financial guaranty reinsurance business would be materially and adversely affected by any reduction in PMI Guaranty’s ratings. The performance of our financial guaranty equity investees could harm our consolidated financial results. We have made significant investments in the equity securities of several companies, including FGIC (through FGIC Corporation) and RAM Re (through RAM Holdings Ltd.). Our investments in FGIC Corporation 69 Table of Contents and RAM Re are accounted for on the equity method of accounting in our consolidated financial statements. The carrying values of our investments in FGIC Corporation and RAM Re decreased to $103.6 million and $60.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007 from $856.5 million and $93.7 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2006. The nature of the businesses conducted by these companies differs significantly from our core business of providing residential mortgage insurance. These companies are subject to a number of significant risks that arise from the nature of their businesses. Some of the various risks affecting FGIC are discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors. Because we do not control these companies, we are dependent upon the management of these companies to independently operate their businesses and report their financial results, and, accordingly, we may be unable to take actions unilaterally to avoid or mitigate those risks. In addition, any prospective or retroactive change in their financial reporting could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Such changes could occur as a result of, among other things, changes in accounting principles or comments made by regulatory agencies, including the SEC in connection with its ordinary course review of filings made with it. We realized an impairment charge of $38.5 million with respect to our investment in RAM Re in the fourth quarter of 2007. We may be required to write down a portion or all of our investment in RAM Re and/or FGIC Corporation in the future. These companies may need to raise capital or engage in a significant restructuring in the near future to meet rating agency capital requirements or otherwise continue writing new business. As discussed above, there can be no assurance that any restructuring or capital raising plan can be implemented on favorable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, although in certain circumstances we have preemptive rights to maintain our equity ownership interest in FGIC Corporation and RAM Re, to the extent that we lack the capital resources to invest additional money in these investments or otherwise choose not to make those additional investments, our equity ownership could be significantly diluted, thereby further decreasing the value of these investments. As a significant portion of our consolidated net income/loss is derived from FGIC and its financial guaranty business, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties associated with the financial guaranty business. A significant portion of our consolidated net income(loss) has been derived and is from FGIC and its financial guaranty business. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with that business. The financial guaranty industry has been undergoing significant market stress and many of the risks described above also apply to FGIC and its financial guaranty business. Additional risks and uncertainties to which we may be exposed as a result of the FGIC Corporation investment include the following, among others: • FGIC has recently been downgraded by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. FGIC has ceased to write new business and we believe it is unlikely that FGIC will be able to write new business in the future at its current ratings levels. With certain exceptions, FGIC’s competitors remain “AAA”-rated. To the extent that FGIC is unable to regain its “AAA” ratings or implement a restructuring or other transaction that permits FGIC Corporation to write new business through its subsidiaries, FGIC Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition will further be significantly impacted. FGIC’s losses stem from continued adverse developments affecting its structured finance portfolio, particularly guarantees of RMBS and CDOs of asset-backed securities, comprised of tranches of sub-prime RMBS. FGIC has added significant loss reserves related to credits in these sectors, but there can be no assurance that such reserves will be adequate to cover actual future losses from FGIC’s portfolio. • FGIC Corporation has proposed a significant restructuring of its insurance operations to the New York Insurance Department, including the organization of a new financial guaranty insurer to be domiciled in New York to provide support for the global public finance and infrastructure obligations currently insured by FGIC and to write new business to serve those markets. We do not know what form such restructuring, if any, will ultimately take, and any restructuring will require approval from the New York Insurance Department, among others. We expect that a restructuring of FGIC’s business or any 70 Table of Contents other alternative business plan will require significant additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any such plan will be implemented in a manner that satisfies the rating agencies’ capital requirements so as to enable the new company to obtain the “AAA” rating it would need to execute its business plan. Moreover, any litigation or threats of litigation by any constituency arising out of any proposed reorganization, including claims from insureds in respect of structured finance obligations, which would continue to be insured by FGIC under the proposed reorganization, could further harm the value of our investment. • In any reorganization or other alternative business plan, it is likely that FGIC Corporation will need significant additional capital. Especially in light of current market conditions, any new additional capital may be costly, may be accompanied by significant restrictions on its business activities and may be extremely dilutive to FGIC Corporation’s investors, including us. In addition, any capital plan would be subject to regulatory approval, including by the New York Insurance Department, and may be subject to delays, during which continuing or worsening negative economic conditions may further adversely affect rating agency capital requirements or FGIC Corporation’s ability to successfully implement the plan. Given our capital needs and resources, we do not expect to make a further investment in FGIC Corporation. Accordingly, equity securities issued by FGIC Corporation in a capital-raising transaction would result in significant dilution of our ownership interest in FGIC Corporation. • FGIC is exposed to credit risks in its portfolio that may arise from deterioration in the credit markets. Such deterioration in credit performance could lead to erosion in the quality of assets and collection of cash flows from assets within structured securities that it has guaranteed. • In recent months, the rating agencies have announced the downgrade of, or other negative ratings actions with respect to, a significant number of structured finance transactions, including transactions that FGIC insures. There can be no assurance that additional securities in FGIC’s insured portfolio will not be downgraded in the future. Downgrades of credits that FGIC insures will result in higher capital charges to FGIC under the relevant rating agency models, thereby increasing the risk that, in order to maintain its current ratings, FGIC would need to raise additional capital or pay to transfer a portion of its in-force business, any of which could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of FGIC going forward. In addition, in light of current market conditions, some of these measures may not be available. • The recent deterioration of certain sectors of the credit markets has caused a significant decline in the number of structured finance securities that have been issued in recent months. There can be no assurance that the market for structured securities will recover, and if it does recover, that there will be a recovery in demand for financial guaranty insurance for these securities. • Demand for financial guaranty insurance is constantly changing and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, regulatory changes and supply of bond issues. In addition, the perceived strength of financial guarantors also may affect demand for financial guaranty insurance. Recently, several major financial guarantors have experienced downgrades or have been placed on review for a possible downgrade. These recent actions may affect investors’ perceptions of the reliability of the rating agency capital models and otherwise negatively impact investors’ confidence in financial guaranty insurance, which could negatively impact the demand for financial guaranty insurance. A general reduction in demand for financial guaranty insurance could harm FGIC Corporation’s consolidated results of operations and business prospects. • The financial guaranty business is subject to extensive regulation. Future legislative, regulatory or judicial changes affecting the financial guaranty industry or public finance or structured finance markets, including changes in tax laws, could adversely affect FGIC’s business. As a result of events in the financial guaranty insurance industry over the past few months, the industry has been subject to additional regulatory scrutiny. As a result of increased focus on the financial guaranty industry, FGIC may be subject to additional regulatory restrictions in the future that could harm its results of operations and prospects. 71 Table of Contents • FGIC increased its loss reserves by $1.2 billion in 2007. FGIC’s loss reserves are necessarily based on estimates and subjective judgments about the outcome of future events. In addition, the securities that FGIC insures include highly complex structured transactions, the performance of which depends on a wide variety of factors outside FGIC’s control. In addition, in some types of collateralized debt obligation structures, FGIC may not have access to the detailed information necessary to project every component of the securitization. In these instances, FGIC may put greater reliance on the models and analysis of third party market participants and may not be able to fully, independently and precisely verify each data point. We cannot be sure that losses in FGIC’s insured portfolio will not exceed by a material amount the loss reserves previously established by FGIC or that additional significant reserves will not need to be established. • FGIC’s structured finance portfolio contains concentrations of individual issuers and servicers of obligations as well as a concentration of mortgage-related securities. FGIC also has a number of individual large exposures to single obligors in its public finance portfolio, concentration in infrastructure sectors and concentrations in certain geographic areas. An adverse event or series of events with respect to one or more of these concentrations that is more severe than the assumptions used by FGIC in its stress scenario at the time of the underwriting of the related credit could result in disproportionate and significant losses to FGIC and could harm its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In 2007, FGIC Corporation’s financial condition has been significantly impacted by its exposure to mortgage-related securities. Continuing stress in the securities market is expected to continue in 2008, which may continue to negatively impact FGIC’s financial position and results of operations. • FGIC’s exposure to certain public finance obligations, such as those relating to airports, has experienced increased stress as a result of terrorism and general global unrest, including a downgrading of the ratings of some of those issuers. Other sectors currently insured by FGIC or into which FGIC may expand could also see direct increased stress as a result of terrorism and general global unrest. FGIC may incur material losses due to such exposures if the economic stress caused by such events is more severe than FGIC currently foresees or has assumed or will assume in the future in underwriting its exposures. As of December 31, 2007, 6.2 % of our U.S. investment portfolio consists of FGIC-insured non-refunded bonds. As a result of our investment in FGIC Corporation, we have amended our investment policy to provide that no more than 15% of our U.S. investment portfolio consists of FGIC-insured non-refunded bonds. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 