ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A. Capital and Liquidity Constraints We expect that we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise needed capital on a timely basis and on favorable terms, or at all. As a result of continued losses in 2008, and our expectation that we will continue to incur significant losses in 2009, we expect that we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital, which may be necessary in 2009. In response to our capital constraints, we are limiting our new insurance writings. We are also exploring capital alternatives to enhance our liquidity and capital at PMI and The PMI Group, including potentially obtaining capital or other relief under U.S. Treasury’s Financial Stability Plan (including the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP), obtaining reinsurance for PMI’s future book of business, other capital relief initiatives at PMI, and/or debt or equity offerings. Given current market conditions generally and in our industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any capital transactions on favorable terms or at all, or that we will successfully obtain assistance under the Financial Stability Plan or other government programs. In addition, continued losses or additional ratings downgrades could make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. Moreover, to the extent a capital raising transaction is undertaken in an effort to avoid a ratings downgrade or adverse regulatory or GSE action, there can be no assurance that the transaction could be completed in a timely manner to avoid such downgrade or action. The terms of a capital raising transaction could require us to agree to stringent financial and operating covenants and to grant security interests on our assets to lenders or holders of our debt securities that could limit our flexibility in operating our business or our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to obtain capital in the future. We may not be able to access additional debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any future equity funding could be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. Further, any capital initiatives in the form of reinsurance, or other risk transfer transactions of our existing portfolios, would have a dilutive effect on our future earnings. We may face liquidity issues at our holding company, The PMI Group. The PMI Group is a holding company and conducts its business operations through various subsidiaries. Historically, The PMI Group’s principal sources of funds have been dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and income from its investment portfolio. State insurance regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by The PMI Group’s insurance subsidiaries without the consent of the applicable regulator. As a result of, among other things, PMI’s losses and the decline in its capital position, PMI did not pay dividends to The PMI Group in 2008, and we do not expect that PMI will be able to pay dividends in 2009 or 2010. At December 31, 2008, The PMI Group held cash and marketable securities of $235.9 million, including $200 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. We believe that we currently have sufficient liquidity at our holding company, after consideration of receivables from PMI with respect to tax sharing agreements, to pay holding company expenses (including interest expense on our outstanding debt) in 2009 and 46 Table of Contents 2010 and to repay the amounts outstanding under the credit facility if we were required to do so. If an event of default under our revolving credit facility is not cured or we do not repay within 30 days, an event of default would occur under our outstanding senior notes. The PMI Group does not currently have sufficient funds or other sources of liquidity to enable it to repay both our credit facility and our senior notes if those obligations were required to be repaid immediately. See Our credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we may trigger an event of default under the facility, below. In addition, unexpected liabilities or investment losses could adversely affect The PMI Group’s liquidity. Our credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we may trigger an event of default under the facility. We currently have $200 million outstanding under our $250 million revolving credit facility. The credit facility contains a number of financial covenants, including a minimum Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth (as defined in the facility) requirement of $1.5 billion, a maximum total debt to total capitalization percentage requirement of 35%, and a maximum risk-to-capital ratio requirement of 20 to 1. Events of default under the existing facility include, among others: (a) PMI being suspended as an approved mortgage insurer by either of the GSEs, and failing to cure such suspension within 30 days, or PMI being disqualified or terminated as an approved mortgage insurer by either of the GSEs; (b) PMI failing to maintain a financial strength rating of at least “Baa” from Moody’s while also failing to maintain a financial strength rating of at least “BBB” from S&P; and (c) our material insurance subsidiaries (as defined in the facility) being subject to certain regulatory actions or restrictions by their respective primary insurance regulators that are not cured within specified periods of time. Upon an event of default, we would likely be required to repay all outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility and would be unable to draw on the facility, and the lenders under the credit facility would have the right to terminate their loan commitments under the facility. In addition, an event of default under the facility, if not cured within 30 days, would cause an event of default under our outstanding senior notes and could require us to repay all our outstanding senior notes. As of December 31, 2008, our Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth was $1.72 billion and our total debt to total capitalization percentage was 27.4% and PMI’s risk-to-capital ratio was 18.5 to 1. PMI’s insurer financial strength ratings are “Ba3 (Developing)” from Moody’s and “A- (Watch Negative)” from S&P. In addition, while we have submitted to the GSEs remediation plans, and to date each of the GSEs continues to treat PMI as an eligible mortgage insurer, we cannot be sure that the GSEs will continue to treat PMI as an eligible mortgage insurer. We believe that we will continue to incur material losses that will reduce our Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth, increase our total debt to total capitalization percentage, and increase PMI’s risk-to-capital ratio. S&P may take additional ratings actions with respect to PMI and other mortgage insurers in the near future. We are actively engaged in discussions with the lenders under our credit facility to amend the financial covenants and events of default under the credit facility. Pending negotiation and execution of an amendment to the credit facility, the lenders under the credit facility have agreed to suspend the financial strength ratings event of default, reduce the minimum Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth requirement to $1.2 billion and increase the maximum PMI risk-to-capital ratio requirement to 24.0 to 1, through April 15, 2009. As part of this agreement, we have agreed not to borrow additional amounts under the facility or contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries unless and until we are in compliance with these rating, Adjusted Consolidated New Worth and risk-to-capital ratio provisions as they were set forth in the credit facility prior to their suspension. We cannot be sure that we will complete an amendment to the credit agreement on terms acceptable to us prior to the expiration of this temporary suspension or at all. We believe that unless we raise capital, or the credit facility is successfully amended, we will be unable to comply with all credit facility covenants and terms on or after April 16, 2009. 47 Table of Contents Unless we raise capital, PMI’s policyholders position will likely decline and its risk-to-capital ratio will likely increase beyond the levels necessary to meet various capital adequacy requirements, which would restrict PMI’s business operations, result in further downgrades of our ratings and have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business. PMI’s principal regulator is the Arizona Department of Insurance (the “Department”), whose regulations require PMI to maintain “policyholders position” of not less than a minimum computed under a formula set by statute. Other states in which PMI is licensed also use a “policyholders position” formula to determine a mortgage insurer’s capital adequacy. If a mortgage insurer does not meet the minimum required by the formula, it cannot write new business until its policyholders position meets the minimum. Other states require mortgage insurers to maintain certain risk-to-capital ratios, generally at 25 to 1. If a mortgage insurer’s risk-to-capital ratio exceeds the limit applicable in a state, it may be prohibited from writing new business in that state until its risk-to-capital ratio falls below the limit. Moreover, our revolving credit facility contains a risk-to-capital ratio requirement of 20 to 1 with respect to MIC which requirement has been temporarily suspended through April 15, 2009. If PMI’s capital adequacy metrics exceed the limits discussed above, we will be prohibited from continuing to write new business in some or all states and, unless we successfully renegotiate the credit facility, would be in default under the credit facility after April 15, 2009, which could result in acceleration of all our outstanding indebtedness. See Our credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we may trigger an event of default under the facility. Under the terms of our runoff support agreement with Allstate Insurance Company, PMI is subject to restrictions that may apply if its risk-to-capital ratio exceeds 23 to 1. Under the runoff support agreement, among other things, PMI may not declare or pay dividends at any time that its risk-to-capital ratio equals or exceeds 23 to 1 or if such a dividend would cause its risk-to-capital ratio to equal or exceed 23 to 1. In addition, if PMI’s risk-to-capital ratio equals or exceeds 23 to 1 at three consecutive monthly measurement dates, PMI may not enter into new insurance or reinsurance contracts without the consent of Allstate Insurance Company. If following such time as PMI’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 23 to 1, Allstate Insurance Company were to make any payments on account of specified third party claims, or if PMI’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 24.5 to 1, the runoff support agreement requires PMI to transfer substantially all of its liquid assets to a trust account for the payment of PMI’s obligations to policyholders. At December 31, 2008, PMI exceeded its minimum policyholders position under Arizona law by $424 million, and PMI’s risk-to-capital ratio was 18.5 to 1. Based on current conditions and expected future trends, we believe that we will continue to incur material losses. The ultimate amount of losses will depend in part on general economic conditions, including the health of credit markets, home price fluctuations and unemployment rates, all of which are difficult to predict. Unless we raise capital, PMI’s policyholders position will likely decline and its risk-to-capital ratio will likely increase beyond levels necessary to meet capital adequacy requirements. The amount and timing of capital we require will depend on a number of factors, such as: • The levels of future losses and new insurance written; • Economic conditions; • Compliance with regulatory policyholders position and risk-to-capital requirements; • Rating agencies and GSE requirements and determinations; • The performance of our investment portfolio and the extent to which we are required to impair portions of the portfolio as a result of deteriorating capital markets; and • The potential need of certain of our insurance subsidiaries for hard capital support. 48 Table of Contents Many of these factors may be outside of our control and difficult to predict. In addition, some of these factors, such as the views and requirements of the rating agencies and GSEs, are subjective and not subject to specific quantitative standards Capital constraints require us to limit our subsidiaries’ operations, including reducing our new insurance writing, or NIW, in 2008 and 2009, which is adversely affecting our results of operations and competitive position. Our insurance subsidiaries, to a varying degree, face significant capital constraints in the form of elevated losses, regulatory capital requirements, restrictive financial covenants in our credit facility, internally-imposed capital limitations in light of our company’s overall capital needs, and rating agency capital requirements. To partially address our capital constraints, we are limiting new insurance writings of our insurance subsidiaries. Reducing our new insurance writings to preserve capital has reduced our revenues, and we expect that capital constraints will continue to reduce our revenue and NIW unless and until we are able to obtain additional capital. We have been and will continue to be negatively impacted by recent downgrades of PMI’s insurer financial strength ratings. Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) insurer financial strength rating of PMI is “A- (Watch Negative)”. PMI is currently rated “BBB+” (Negative) and “Ba3” (Developing)” by Fitch and Moody’s, respectively. As a result of the downgrades of PMI, PMI Europe has also been downgraded and has received insurer financial strength ratings of “A-” (Watch Negative), “BBB+” (Negative) and “B1” (Developing) from Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s, respectively. PMI Europe’s rating is dependent in part upon the capital support of PMI. The recent downgrades have had a negative effect on our eligibility to insure mortgage loans from the GSEs and other private mortgage lenders who condition our eligibility partly on our maintenance of certain ratings. See The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. Some private mortgage lenders may also reduce the amount of or eliminate all mortgage insurance they purchase from us as a result of the ratings downgrade. If we become ineligible to provide insurance to a portion or all of the mortgage loans from the GSEs or private mortgage lenders, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The recent downgrades also have had an adverse impact on PMI Europe. In 2008, PMI Europe’s and The PMI Group’s downgrades gave rise to the right by certain counterparties to terminate their agreements and/or required PMI Europe to post collateral for the benefit of such counterparties. See We are exposed to risk in our European operations. If we experience further downgrades, our business prospects, revenues, competitive position, holding company debt ratings and the performance of our insurance subsidiaries could be significantly harmed. In addition, after April 15, 2009, an event of default would occur under our credit facility if MIC fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least “Baa” from Moody’s or fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least “BBB” from Standard & Poor’s. See Our credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we may trigger an event of default under the facility. We will need to raise additional capital to regain our ratings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any additional capital in the future, either on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, or at all. See We expect that we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise needed capital on a timely basis and on favorable terms, or at all. The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. The GSEs have issued eligibility requirements for qualified mortgage insurers, covering substantially all areas of PMI’s mortgage insurance operations, including requiring mortgage insurers to maintain certain insurer 49 Table of Contents financial strength ratings, and may revise any eligibility requirement at any time in their own discretion. In response to ratings downgrades of PMI below Aa3/AA-, the GSEs required us to submit remediation plans outlining, among other things, the steps we are taking or plan to take to increase our and PMI’s insurer financial strength. We have submitted remediation plans to both GSEs and to date each of the GSEs continues to treat PMI as an eligible mortgage insurer. Freddie Mac has stated that its forbearance from enforcing additional insurer requirements is wholly discretionary and subject to change as well as its review of monthly updates regarding PMI’s progress in implementing its remediation plan. Fannie Mae also requires periodic updates from PMI. See Item 1(B)(1)(a). U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance-Primary Flow Channel. The GSEs, in their own discretion, could require PMI to limit certain activities and practices in order to remain an eligible mortgage insurer with them. Such limitations could include, among other things, maximum risk-to-capital ratios and limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other payments, which could limit our operating flexibility and limit the areas in which we may write new business. Either or both of the GSEs could determine that PMI is no longer an eligible mortgage insurer. The GSEs, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the United States, are the primary beneficiaries of PMI’s mortgage insurance coverage. If either or both of the GSEs were to cease to consider PMI an eligible mortgage insurer and, therefore, cease accepting our mortgage insurance products, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed, and an event of default would occur under our credit facility. A downgrade of our senior unsecured debt ratings could increase our borrowing costs and, therefore, adversely affect our liquidity. Our senior unsecured debt is rated “BBB-” (Negative Outlook) by Standard & Poor’s; “BB” (Rating Watch Negative) by Fitch; and “B3” (Rating Under Review) by Moody’s. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of financing, is dependent on various factors and would be adversely affected by continued deterioration of our unsecured debt ratings. Debt ratings are influenced by a number of factors, including, but are not limited to: financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers, the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure, material changes in earning trends and volatility, inability to dividend monies from subsidiaries, our competitive position, and the rating agencies’ views on the future earnings prospects of our insurance subsidiaries and the mortgage insurance industry. Sustained deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors, including our weak financial results and continued weak earnings performance, could result in additional downgrades of our debt ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Placement of our senior unsecured debt ratings on credit watch by the rating agencies increases the risk that our debt ratings may be downgraded again in the near future. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. As a result of significant volatility and uncertainty in the market, we impaired the value of certain securities held in our investment portfolio and there is a risk that additional impairments may occur in the future. In 2008, we determined that certain preferred securities held in our U.S. investment portfolio were “other-than-temporarily” impaired and incurred a $96.5 million loss related to the impairment. Changing and unprecedented market conditions have materially impacted and could continue to materially impact the valuation of investment securities in our investment portfolios, which may cause us to impair in the future some portion of the preferred and other securities remaining in our portfolio. Any decision to impair securities held in our investment portfolio would be based on our assessment of, among other things, recent credit downgrades of the applicable security or the issuer by the rating agencies; the severity and nature of the decline in market value below cost regardless of the duration of the decline, the financial condition of the applicable issuer, whether scheduled interest payments are past due and whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recoveries in fair value. Future reductions to the value of our investment securities on an other-than-temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future reductions to the value of our investment portfolios would negatively affect our capital, which could cause PMI’s 50 Table of Contents policyholders position to decline and its risk-to-capital ratio to increase and further constrain our ability to write new insurance. See Unless we raise additional capital, PMI’s policyholders position will likely decline and its risk-to-capital ratio will likely increase beyond the levels necessary to meet various capital adequacy requirements which would restrict PMI’s business operations, result in further downgrades of our ratings and have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business, above. B. Risks Relating to Risk Management and Loss Reserving We establish loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance policies only upon loan defaults, and because our loss reserve estimates are subject to uncertainties, our actual losses may substantially exceed our loss reserves. Further, due to higher losses we may be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in the future. The establishment of loss reserves is subject to inherent uncertainty and requires significant judgment by management. Loss reserves established with respect to our mortgage insurance business are based upon management’s estimates and judgments, principally with respect to the rate and severity of claims, and are particularly uncertain during economic downturn, which is characterized by market volatility and disruption. In accordance with GAAP for the mortgage insurance industry, we establish loss reserves for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries only for loans in default. We establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, or LAE, based upon our estimate of unpaid losses and LAE on (i) reported mortgage loans in default and (ii) estimated defaults incurred but not yet reported to us by servicers. Our mortgage insurance reserving process does not take account of the impact of future losses that could occur from loans that are not in default. As a result, future notices of defaults on insured loans may have a material impact on our financial results and our ultimate actual losses may be substantially higher than our loss reserve estimates. The continuing adverse economic and market conditions and resulting uncertainty with respect to the rate and severity of claims may result in substantial increases in loss reserves in the future. Additional increases in loss reserves would negatively affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We perform premium deficiency analyses quarterly on a single book basis for the U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations using assumptions based on our best estimates when the analyses are performed. The calculation for premium deficiency, which is the present value of expected future losses and expenses to the extent they exceed the present value of expected future premium, requires significant judgment and includes estimates of future expected premiums, expected claims, loss adjustment expenses and maintenance costs as of the date of the test. The calculation of future expected premiums uses assumptions for persistency and termination levels on policies currently in force. Assumptions for future expected losses include future expected average claim sizes and claim rates which are based on the current default rate and expected future defaults. A premium deficiency analysis was performed on a U.S. GAAP basis as of December 31, 2008, and we determined there was no premium deficiency in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations segment despite significant losses in 2008. Because this premium deficiency calculation required significant judgment and estimation, to the extent actual losses are higher or actual premiums are lower than the assumptions we used in our analysis, we could be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in any future reporting periods, which could indirectly trigger an event of default under our credit facility and would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices may not anticipate all risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of unforeseen risks. We have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to borrower default risk in our insured portfolio by anticipating future risks and the magnitude of those risks. In 2008, in light of economic and market conditions, we continued to implement new pricing and tighter underwriting guidelines. Given the uncertainties caused by the present economic downturn and, to the extent that a risk is unforeseen or is underestimated in terms of magnitude of loss, these policies and practices will not 51 Table of Contents insulate us from the effects of those risks. When establishing loss reserves, we rely on models that have been developed internally and by third parties to analyze and predict estimated losses relating to our current inventory of loans in default. Flaws in these models and/or in assumptions used by these models could lead to increased losses and loss reserving. C. U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations Current market volatility combined with falling home prices and rising unemployment have materially and adversely affected our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Through our main operating businesses, we are exposed to the risk that borrowers will default on residential mortgage loans we have insured. The current economic downturn, characterized by deteriorating and volatile credit and capital markets, falling home prices and higher unemployment, has significantly increased the likelihood of borrowers defaulting on their mortgage loans and increased defaults and claims. As a result, we have incurred higher losses, and the amount of new insurance written has declined. We expect that these trends will continue and will continue to materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. As discussed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we significantly increased PMI’s loss reserves in 2008 as a result of the increase in PMI’s default inventory, higher claim rates, higher average claim sizes and worsened severity, which is the ratio of the claim paid to the original risk-in-force relating to the loan. Higher claim rates were driven in part by home price declines and the diminished availability of certain loan products, both of which constrain refinancing opportunities and decrease the cure rate. The increase in PMI’s average claim size was driven by higher average loan sizes and coverage levels in PMI’s portfolio, as well as declines in home prices, which limit PMI’s loss mitigation opportunities. Our losses significantly increased in 2008 and we expect losses to continue in 2009 as a result of the severe downturn in the housing, mortgage and capital markets. If the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market is changed, or if the GSEs change other policies or practices, the amount of insurance that PMI writes could further decrease, which could result in a decrease of our future revenue. The GSEs are the beneficiaries on a significant portion of the insurance policies we issue as a result of their purchases, statutorily required or otherwise, of qualifying mortgage loans from lenders or investors. In 2008, the GSEs were, and in 2009 the GSEs will be, the beneficiaries of essentially all PMI issued insurance policies. Accordingly, changes in the GSEs’ policies and practices with respect to mortgage credit enhancement could significantly affect our business. The placement of the GSEs into the conservatorship of the FHFA increases the likelihood that the U.S. Congress will examine the role and purpose of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market and potentially propose certain structural and other changes to the GSEs. New federal legislation or programs could reduce the level of, or eliminate, the purchase of private mortgage insurance by the GSEs, or fundamentally change the manner in which the GSEs utilize credit enhancement. For example, under the Treasury’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, announced on March 4, 2009, certain borrowers whose loans are owned or guaranteed by the GSEs and have loan-to-value ratios that have risen as a result of declines in home prices, may refinance into a lower interest and take advantage of lower interest rates or a more stable loan product. Under this program, the GSEs will not require mortgage insurance as credit enhancement on refinances of mortgages that were originated at less than 80% LTV, but are now greater than 80% LTV. The extent to which the Treasury’s refinance program will impact PMI’s operations and business is unknown. This program and other changes in the GSEs’ practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, harm our ability to compete and reduce the profitability of our mortgage insurance business. 52 Table of Contents A decrease in the volume of low down-payment home mortgage originations would cause our revenues to decline. Our future revenues also depend on the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations would reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and, consequently, our revenues. The volume of low down payment mortgage originations is affected by, among other factors: • general economic conditions, including access to credit markets, unemployment rates, interest rates and home prices; • government policies, including government housing policies encouraging homeownership, federal and state economic stimulus programs and policies, and GSE and lender-specific policies; and • the availability of mortgage insurance for high LTV loans, which is affected by, among other things, general economic conditions, secondary market demand, government housing policy and capital constraints facing mortgage insurers. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations would reduce the demand for mortgage insurances products such as the ones we offer and could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if PMI were to lose the business of a major customer. PMI’s top ten customers accounted for 49.4% of its premiums earned in 2008. Earned premiums from Fannie Mae exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues and represented 12.6% of PMI’s earned premiums in 2008. The loss of a significant customer for any reason could reduce our revenue and, if not replaced, harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on insured loans and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. We charge premium rates in effect at the time a policy is issued based upon our expectations regarding likely performance over the life of insurance coverage. We generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy. As a result, higher than anticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums we charge on our insurance in force and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated claims could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. PMI’s primary new insurance written and risk in force includes: • Loans with LTVs exceeding 97%, known as Above-97s. As of December 31, 2008, 21.5% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Above-97s. We no longer insure loans with LTVs exceeding 95%. Above-97s represented 4.8% of our total primary NIW for the year ended December 31, 2008. • ARMs. As of December 31, 2008, 8.0% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of ARMs, excluding 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. • 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. As of December 31, 2008, 2.3% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of 2/28 Hybrid ARMs through PMI’s structured finance channel. • Alt-A loans. As of December 31, 2008, 18.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Alt-A loans. Beginning in 2007, we began progressively tightening our underwriting guidelines related to Alt-A 53 Table of Contents loans, and effective June 1, 2008, we eliminated Alt-A loan eligibility altogether. Alt-A loans represented 5.3% of our total primary NIW for the year ended December 31, 2008. • Interest only loans. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 11.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of interest only loans. • Payment option ARMs. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 3.4% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of payment option ARMs. Effective April 15, 2008, we eliminated future coverage of negatively-amortizing ARM products. Payment Option ARMs represented 0.2% of our total primary NIW for the year ended December 31, 2008. • Less-than-A quality mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2008, 7.1% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of less-than-A quality loans. We expect higher default and claim rates for high-LTV, ARM, 2/28 Hybrid ARM, Alt-A, interest only, payment option ARM, and less-than-A quality loans. We also insure loans that have more than one of the above risk characteristics. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 2.5% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Above-97s that are less-than-A quality loans, approximately 2.4% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Alt-A loans that are also Above-97s and approximately 3.1% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of interest only loans that are also Above-97s. This “layering” of risk has increased the risk of borrower default. Although we attempt to incorporate the higher default and claim rates associated with these loans into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. While the risk of default on these loans is already higher, worsening economic conditions, rising unemployment rates and/or additional house price declines could even more significantly increase the default risks associated with these loans. In addition, these same negative economic and market conditions could also significantly increase the default and claim risk on loans for which we did not assume higher default and claim rates. PMI’s loss experience may increase as its policies continue to age. Generally, we expect the majority of losses and LAE on insured loans in PMI’s current portfolio to occur during the second through the fourth years after loan origination. Primary insurance written from the period of January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007 represented 58.9% of PMI’s primary risk in force as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, a significant percentage of the primary portfolio is in, or approaching, its peak claim years. In addition, PMI has experienced adverse and accelerated delinquency development in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 insured loan portfolios. We believe our loss experience could increase even more as these policies age. If the claim frequency on PMI’s risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting premium rates, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Initiatives through our Home Preservation Initiatives (HPI) department and other similar mortgage modification programs may not provide material benefits to us. As discussed in Item 1(B)(7). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Defaults and Claims, in response to the increase in PMI delinquent loans, changing market conditions and increased pressure on loan servicers, in late 2007 PMI formed its HPI department to facilitate our customers’ responses to the mounting volume of retention workout requests, such as repayment plans and loan modifications, which enable borrowers to cure their defaults and reinstate their loans. In early 2008, HPI also began direct outreach to delinquent borrowers on PMI insured loans to educate them about workout options and to hasten loan workout discussions with their loan servicers to design workout plans to help cure their defaults. Congress and the U.S. government continue to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the housing markets. In February 2009, the Obama Administration announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan that intends to help homeowners to refinance or modify their 54 Table of Contents mortgages with more favorable mortgage terms. It is not yet clear whether such and other similar programs will result in significant numbers of loan modifications. In addition, there can be no assurance that modified loans will not subsequently re-default, resulting in losses that could be greater than those we would have paid had the loan not been modified. Because these programs are in their early stages, we do not know whether they will provide material benefits to us. If legislation is enacted to more easily permit mortgage balances to be reduced in bankruptcy, we may still be responsible to pay eligible claims based on the loans’ original balances if borrowers re-default on their mortgages after the balances are reduced. Various government entities have enacted foreclosure moratoria, which do not affect the accrual of interest and other expenses on delinquent loans. Unless a loan is modified during a moratorium to cure a default, at the expiration of the moratorium, additional interest and expenses would be due which could result in our losses on loans subject to the moratorium being higher than if there had been no moratorium. Geographic concentration of PMI’s primary insurance in force has increased and could continue to increase claims and losses and harm our financial performance. We are affected by economic downturns and other events in specific regions of the United States where a large portion of our U.S. business is concentrated. As of December 31, 2008, 10.3% of PMI’s primary risk in force was located in Florida and 8.0% was located in California. We are currently experiencing accelerated delinquency and loss development in those states. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, 16.9% of our primary risk-in-force related to loans located in Illinois, Georgia, New Jersey and Ohio. Collectively these states experienced higher default rates in 2008 than other states in the U.S. as a result of relatively weak economic activity, higher unemployment rates and dramatic declines in house prices. We expect that our loss experience with respect to risk-in-force in these states will continue to deteriorate in the near future, which could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We delegate underwriting authority to mortgage lenders which could cause us to insure mortgage loans that do not conform to our underwriting guidelines, and thereby increase claims and losses. A significant percentage of PMI’s new insurance written is underwritten pursuant to a delegated underwriting program under which, subject to periodic audit, certain mortgage lenders may determine whether mortgage loans meet our program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. If PMI determines that a lender participating in the delegated program commits PMI to insure a loan that fails to meet all of the approved underwriting guidelines, subject to certain exceptions, PMI has the right to exclude or rescind coverage on the loan. PMI may also suspend or terminate the insured’s delegated authority to extend coverage to new loans if it determines that the insured has not been complying with approved underwriting guidelines. Because PMI does not review the underwriting determinations on all loans, claims may be paid on certain loans with unacceptable risk profiles or which failed to meet approved underwriting guidelines at the time of origination. In addition, certain customers who fail to comply with approved underwriting guidelines may go undetected and continue to submit noncompliant loans under their delegated authority. Higher persistency rates in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations place additional constraints on capital, making it more difficult to write new business. As discussed in Item 1(B)(5). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Business Composition— Persistency, PMI’s persistency rate has increased in recent years, rising to 82.2% in 2008 from 75.5% and 69.6% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. PMI’s persistency rate has been positively impacted by lower borrower refinance activity of PMI insured loans, primarily as a result of declining home prices and the diminished availability of loan products. To the extent that home prices continue to decline and residential mortgage refinance activity remains relatively low, we expect that PMI’s persistency rate will remain high and therefore limit the rate at which PMI’s existing risk in force runs off. Because PMI must maintain sufficient capital to satisfy regulatory 55 Table of Contents risk-to-capital metrics, higher persistency rates-even though they create relatively higher revenues-constrain PMI’s capital position and its ability to write new business, which may adversely impact our future revenues and results of operations. See Capital constraints require us to limit our subsidiaries’ operations, including reducing our new insurance writing, or NIW, in 2008 and 2009, which is adversely affecting our results of operations and competitive position. If mortgage lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance, the amount of insurance that we write could decline, which could reduce our revenues and profits as well as our competitiveness. Alternatives to private mortgage insurance include: • government mortgage insurance programs, including those of the FHA and the VA; • lenders and investors holding mortgages in their portfolios and self-insuring; • mortgage lenders maintaining lender recourse or participation with respect to loans sold to the GSEs; • lenders and investors using internal credit enhancements, such as subordination, using other credit enhancements combined with reduced mortgage insurance coverage or accepting credit risk without credit enhancement; and • mortgage lenders returning to structuring mortgage originations to avoid private mortgage insurance, primarily through the use of so called simultaneous seconds, piggybacks, 80/10/10s, 80/15/5s or 80/20 loans, which include a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a second mortgage with a loan-to-value ratio ranging from 5% to 20%. In light of current market conditions, most lenders ceased originating such loans; however, if market conditions improve, lenders could choose to originate simultaneous seconds in the future. These alternatives, or other alternatives to private mortgage insurance that may develop, could reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Recently enacted federal legislation provides the FHA with greater flexibility in establishing new products and temporarily increases the maximum loan amount that the FHA may insure, in some cases up to the GSE limits, including up to $729,500 for certain high cost areas (i.e., areas with median house prices that are higher than the regular conforming loan limit). In the past, FHA’s market share included loans that would be ineligible for mortgage insurance from a private mortgage insurer; however, the expansion of the FHA’s mortgage insurance program now includes loans that would be eligible for insurance from a private mortgage insurer. As a result, the FHA substantially increased its market share of the U.S. primary mortgage insurance business. The future size of the FHA market will depend in large part on whether Congress will permanently keep the FHA maximum loan limit at its current level or adopt additional increases. Any changes expanding the FHA program could cause future demand for private mortgage insurance to decrease and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with the FHA. Government-owned or -sponsored mortgage insurance providers, such as the FHA and VA, may establish pricing terms and business practices that are not consistent with maximizing return on capital or other profitability metrics. In addition, they may not have the same capital requirements that private mortgage insurers have and therefore may have greater financial flexibility in their product portfolios that could put us in a competitive disadvantage. To the extent such government-owned or –sponsored entities decide to issue loans with more unfavorable terms in furtherance of social or other goals rather than based on a profit or risk management motive, we may be unable to compete effectively in that market, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prior to their suspension in 2008, the risk-based capital rules applicable to the GSEs may have allowed large financial entities such as banks, financial guarantors, insurance companies, and brokerage firms to provide or 56 Table of Contents arrange for products that may efficiently substitute for some of the capital relief provided to the GSEs by private mortgage insurance. Our competitive position and our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if these rules are reinstituted and the GSEs were to use these products in lieu of mortgage insurance. See Changes to the risk-based capital rules applicable to the GSEs could cause PMI’s business to suffer. Our revenues and profits could decline if PMI loses market share as a result of industry competition or our limited ability to write new business. The principal sources of PMI’s competition include: other private mortgage insurers, several of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of public companies with direct or indirect capital reserves that provide it with potentially greater resources than we have, as well as the various alternatives to private mortgage insurance discussed in “If mortgage lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance, the amount of insurance that we write could decline, which could reduce our revenues and profits as well as our competitiveness,” above. Future entrants to the mortgage insurance industry, if any, could also negatively affect our market share and revenues. We believe that at least one additional company is considering offering mortgage insurance in the United States. In response to market conditions, we implemented significant pricing and underwriting guideline changes, which reduced PMI’s new business writings in 2008, and due to capital constraints, we will continue to limit NIW in 2009. If demand for mortgage insurance products from PMI diminishes as a result of our capital preservation initiatives, we may have greater difficulties competing with other private mortgage insurers, other external credit enhancers and the various other private mortgage insurance alternatives. See Capital constraints require us to limit our subsidiaries’ operations, including reducing our new insurance writing, or NIW, in 2008 and 2009, which is adversely affecting our results of operations and competitive position. In addition, if we experience delays in introducing competitive new products and programs or if these products or programs are less profitable than our existing products and programs, our business will suffer. If our revenues decline, we may be unable to replenish PMI’s investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is reduced to pay claims. We reinsure a portion of our mortgage insurance default risk with lender-affiliated captive reinsurance companies, which reduces our net premiums written and earned. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, offer products to lenders that are designed to allow them to participate in the risks and rewards of the mortgage insurance business. Many of the major mortgage lenders have established affiliated captive reinsurance companies. These captive reinsurance companies assume a portion of the risks associated with the lender’s insured mortgage loans in exchange for a percentage of the associated gross premiums. Because the GSEs currently prohibit cessions of gross risk or gross premium cedes greater than 25% to captive reinsurers and PMI ceased seeking excess-of-loss (XOL) captive reinsurance arrangements, we expect the portion of our new primary insurance business that is subject to captive arrangements to decrease. See Item 1(B)(9)(a). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Reinsurance—Captive Reinsurance. PMI will continue to cede premiums under its in-force XOL contracts until they run-off and mature pursuant to the existing terms and conditions, and as a result, captive reinsurance agreements will continue to negatively impact our net premiums written and earned. If we are unable to keep pace with the technological demands of our customers or with the technology-related products and services offered by our competitors, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Participants in the mortgage lending and mortgage insurance industries rely on e-commerce and other technology to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide our products and services electronically via the Internet or electronic data transmission, and we process a majority of our new insurance written and claims processing electronically. We expect this trend to continue, and accordingly, we believe that it is essential that we continue to invest resources in maintaining electronic 57 Table of Contents connectivity with our customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technology. Because of capital constraints, we may reduce costs by, among other things, decreasing the level of resources devoted to e-commerce and technology upgrades. Our business may suffer if we do not keep pace with the technological demands of our customers and the technological capabilities of our competitors. D. Regulatory and Litigation Risk The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to litigation risk. The mortgage insurance industry and PMI face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits. In recent years, mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation with policyholders regarding the rescission of mortgage insurance coverage on individual loans under the terms of the insurers’ master policies where the mortgage insurers discovered misrepresentations by, for example, a borrower, lender or an agent of the lender. In 2008, as a result of a significant increase in the volume of defaults on loans we insure, we are reviewing and investigating a larger volume of insured loans for fraud, negligence, negligent underwriting and eligibility for coverage, which has resulted in a substantial increase in the number of policy rescissions. See Item 1(B)(7). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Defaults and Claims—Defaults. We believe the rise in the numbers of rescissions heightens the risk of litigation concerning our rescission decisions. On January 15, 2009, Bayview Loan Servicing, LLC (“Bayview”) filed a complaint against PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (“PMI”) in California state court in Contra Costa County. The complaint alleges that PMI improperly rescinded mortgage insurance coverage on 39 loans which Bayview acquired from PMI’s insured, Alliance Bancorp, and alleges damages of at least $10 million. PMI does not believe that Bayview’s allegations have merit and intends to defend the action vigorously. On August 28, 2008, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (“PMI”) rescinded coverage on 5,565 loans that IndyMac Bank delivered to PMI for coverage in 2007 under a lender paid mortgage insurance program. On September 12, 2008, IndyMac Federal Bank, FSB (“IndyMac”), by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as Conservator, filed a complaint against PMI in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that PMI improperly rescinded mortgage insurance coverage on the 5,565 loans. The complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief and requests damages against PMI in an unspecified amount for breach of contract, tortuous breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and reformation. Thereafter, on October 31, 2008, IndyMac, by the FDIC as Conservator, filed an amended complaint which included allegations related to PMI’s rescission of coverage on certain additional ineligible interest-only loans rescinded on October 3, 2008, and on January 9, 2009, filed a second amended complaint adding additional allegations including allegations related to the FDIC’s rights and powers as conservator/receiver. Trial in the matter is set for January 11, 2010. PMI filed an answer to the second amended complaint on February 26, 2009. PMI does not believe that the FDIC’s/IndyMac’s allegations have merit and intends to defend the action vigorously. As we continue to review our insured loan portfolios, we may rescind more insurance policies in the future. Such rescissions may lead to an increase in litigation by lenders and policyholders asserting claims challenging our right to rescind such policies. Such litigation is likely to be costly even if we are successful in defending against such claims. In addition, as a result of these rescissions, we may have reduced our loss reserves and/or risk in force for the corresponding policies. If we are unsuccessful in defending these rescissions in legal actions, we may need to re-establish loss reserves for, and reassume the risk on, such rescinded policies, which could harm our results of operations. Litigation relating to capital markets transactions and securities-related matters in general has increased and is expected to continue to increase as a result of the deterioration of the capital, credit, housing and mortgage markets. In March 2008, we and certain of our executive officers were named in securities class action 58 Table of Contents complaints filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. In April 2008, we and certain of our executive officers and directors were named in two shareholder derivative suits. Both of the derivative suits assert various acts and/or omissions against the defendants. Both actions have been stayed by stipulation of the parties and court orders based on the stipulations until completion of the motion to dismiss phase of the securities litigation referenced above. We continue to believe that we have meritorious defenses to these lawsuits and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Consumers are also bringing a growing number of lawsuits against home mortgage lenders and settlement service providers. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation alleging violations of RESPA and FCRA. In the past, a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers, including PMI, under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have provided products or services at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. RESPA precludes PMI from providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, in exchange for the referral of settlement services. We cannot predict whether actions of the types described herein, or other actions, will be brought against us or other mortgage insurers in the future. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to regulatory risk and have been subject to increased scrutiny by insurance and other regulatory authorities. PMI and the mortgage insurance industry are subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation by state insurance departments whose primary goal is to safeguard insurers’ solvency for the protection of policyholders. Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad powers to supervisory agencies and officials to examine and investigate insurance companies and to enforce rules or exercise discretion touching almost every aspect of PMI’s business. We have been subject to increased scrutiny by the Department of Insurance of the State of Arizona and other state insurance regulatory authorities as a result of our substantial losses in recent periods and the decrease in our statutory capital. State insurance regulatory authorities could take actions restricting our ability to conduct business if, among other things, they were to determine that PMI were in hazardous financial condition. Such regulatory actions could limit our flexibility, adversely affect our operating results and result in an event of default under our credit facility. In addition, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities concerning certain practices, including captive reinsurance arrangements. PMI continues to respond to requests from the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for information regarding its captive reinsurance arrangements among other matters. We cannot predict whether the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the HUD OIG’s administrative subpoenas will lead to further inquiries, or investigations, of these matters, or the scope, timing or outcome of any inquiry or actions by those Departments or any inquiry or actions that may be commenced by state insurance departments, attorneys general or other regulators. As a result of the deterioration of the housing and mortgage markets in the U.S., regulatory oversight of our insurance subsidiaries may significantly increase in the future. Increased federal or state regulatory scrutiny could lead to new legal precedents, new regulations or new practices, or regulatory actions or investigations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Changes to the risk-based capital rules applicable to the GSEs could cause PMI’s business to suffer. The FHFA, the agency which currently regulates the GSEs, has risk-based capital rules that prescribe treatment of credit enhancement issued by private mortgage insurers and provides capital guidelines for the GSEs 59 Table of Contents in connection with their use of other types of credit protection counterparties in addition to mortgage insurers. The rules require the GSEs to hold different amounts of capital against mortgage insurance coverage according to the rating of the mortgage insurance company that issued the policy. See Item 1(B)(1)(a). U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance-Primary Flow Channel. Although these rules were suspended in 2008, the FHFA, or other governmental authority, including Congress, may revisit the risk-based capital rules and the treatment of mortgage insurance at any time in the future. If the rules change or if the GSEs begin again to follow the FHFA’s risk-based capital rules, our consolidated financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord may limit the use of mortgage insurance. The implementation by banks in the United States of Basel II, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s proposal to implement a new international capital accord, has been indefinitely delayed in the United States, although many banks in the United States implemented Basel II in 2008 and others may continue to implement Basel II in 2009. Basel II affects the capital treatment provided to mortgage insurance by domestic and international banks in both their origination and securitization activities, and the provisions related to residential mortgages and mortgage insurance could alter the competitive positions of mortgage insurers. In addition, the Basel II provisions related to residential mortgages and mortgage insurance may provide incentives to certain customers not to insure mortgages with a lower risk of claim and to insure mortgages having a higher risk of claim. These systemic incentives may have the effect of presenting the mortgage insurance industry with the riskiest loans while lenders and investors pursue the less-risky loans utilizing other forms of credit enhancement or foregoing default protection, which could impact our future financial condition. E. Other Risk We are exposed to risk in our European operations. Despite the restructuring of our European operations, substantial risk remains in those operations and increased in 2008 as a result of deteriorating economic conditions in the United States and the European Union. As a result of PMI Europe’s exposure to U.S. subprime risk under reinsurance agreements and the deterioration of such risk, PMI Europe increased its loss reserves by $48.8 million in 2008 and paid claims of $10.6 million. If the performance of these exposures continues to deteriorate, PMI Europe will continue to experience increased losses and increases to its loss reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. In addition, the 2008 downgrades of PMI Europe’s insurer financial strength ratings have had an adverse impact on PMI Europe. PMI Europe’s downgrades gave rise to the right by certain counterparties to terminate their agreements and/or required PMI Europe to post collateral for the benefit of such counterparties. As of March 15, 2009, PMI Europe has posted collateral of $64.2 million on credit default swap transactions and $53.7 million related to its exposure to U.S. subprime risk. PMI Europe may be required to post additional collateral on credit default swaps as a result of such factors as changes in CDS valuations and/or deterioration in the performance of the underlying collateral referenced in such transactions and on subprime reinsurance transactions due to continued loss development. If PMI Europe is required to post additional collateral, our financial condition could be impaired. Further, PMI Europe’s financial results have been volatile as a result of changes in the fair value of its credit default swap derivative contracts. Credit derivative transactions are recorded at fair value, and are subject to mark-to-market treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Since quoted market prices for these derivative contracts are generally not available, PMI Europe estimates fair value by using modeling methodologies, which are less objective than using quoted market prices. Changes in estimated fair values can be caused by general market 60 Table of Contents conditions, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (e.g. impairment or improvement of specific reference entities or reference obligations). Decreases in estimated fair value relative to credit derivatives have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions. Those changes in value are reflected in our financial statements and have adversely affected our reported earnings. Due to the illiquid nature of the credit default swap market, the use of available market data and assumptions used by management to estimate fair value could differ materially from amounts that would be realized in the market if the derivatives were traded. Further decreases in estimated fair value in the future will continue to affect our reported earnings. The underlying collateral of these credit derivatives are residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, continued adverse conditions in the residential mortgage credit market may continue to result in mark-to-market losses. In estimating the fair values of derivative contracts and based on historical experience, PMI Europe incorporates expected call dates in its internal valuation models. Call dates are determined based on a number of factors, including, the underlying economics of the transactions, counterparties exercising their option to call the transactions at certain agreed dates, counterparties’ expressed intent and potential penalties associated with extending transactions. The current state of capital markets, the financial conditions and perspectives of various counterparties and the general weakening of economic conditions in Europe may lead to decisions to extend the credit protection offered by PMI Europe’s CDS contracts. If a CDS contract is extended beyond its expected call date, PMI Europe will be required to adjust its internal model assumptions. To the extent that credit spreads are higher than at the time of inception of the transaction, PMI Europe will recognize further mark-to-market losses. If many CDS contracts extend and spreads remain at their current levels, mark-to-market losses could be material. Further, if contracts are extended beyond their expected call dates, there will be a greater likelihood of incurring higher than currently expected realized losses on the contracts. All of the above risks could result in material losses to PMI Europe and, if significant enough in the aggregate, could require PMI to make additional capital contributions to PMI Europe pursuant to its capital support agreements, which could harm the financial condition of PMI. It is unlikely we will recover our investments in our financial guaranty equity investees. We made significant investments in the equity securities of several companies, including FGIC (through FGIC Corporation) and RAM Re (through RAM Holdings Ltd.). Our investments in FGIC Corporation and RAM Re are accounted for on the equity method of accounting in our consolidated financial statements. The carrying values of our investments in FGIC Corporation and RAM Re were zero as of December 31, 2008. As a result of the downgrades in FGIC’s financial strength ratings, as discussed in Item 1(D). Financial Guaranty, FGIC has ceased competing for new business in the financial guaranty industry, and we do not expect FGIC to compete for new business in the future. In addition, RAM Re is currently not writing new business. There is a risk we may not be fully compensated on the contingent note we received in connection with our sale of PMI Australia. When we sold PMI Australia, PMI received approximately $746 million in cash and a note receivable in the principal amount of approximately $187 million (the “Note”), with interest accruing through September 2011 when it matures and is payable. As discussed above in Item 1(C). International Operations—Discontinued Operations in PMI Australia and PMI Asia, the actual amount owed under the Note is subject to reductions to the extent (i) performance of PMI Australia’s existing insurance portfolio as of June 30, 2008 does not achieve specified targets and (ii) PMI is required to satisfy certain warranty claims. We currently do not record any statutory or GAAP value to the Note due to the contingencies discussed above. There is no guarantee that PMI Australia’s portfolio as of June 30, 2008 will achieve the required performance targets or that the counterparty will not assert warranty claims against us. Either or both of these events could impact our ability to recover the full value of the Note, which would harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Also, the Note is an unsecured obligation of the issuer and there is no assurance that the issuer will have the ability to redeem, in whole or in part, the Note when it matures in 2011. 61 Table of Contents Our common stock is subject to significant price fluctuation and possible delisting from the New York Stock Exchange, and suspension of dividend payment may put further pressure on our stock price. Stock prices in general, and the price of our common stock in particular, have experienced significant fluctuation over the past year. As of March 13, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was $0.44, a 94% decline from its 52-week high at $7.30. As of the same date, our market capitalization was $36.0 million. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due to general stock market conditions and change in market perception of the mortgage insurance industry, as well as our results of operations, business prospects, liquidity and capital position. The substantial decline in our market capitalization will make it more difficult for us to raise equity capital and, if we are able to raise equity capital, significantly increase dilution to our existing stockholders. The NYSE’s quantitative continuing listing standards require any listed security to have an average closing price during any 30 consecutive trading days of not less than $1.00 per share and an average global market capitalization for any such period of not less than $25 million. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE announced, subject to SEC approval, the suspension of the $1.00 minimum price requirement and the reduction of the global market capitalization standard to $15 million, initially through June 30, 2009. Our common stock had been trading below $1.00 before the NYSE announcement and is continuing to trade below $1.00. There is no assurance that our stock will trade above the $1.00 minimum price requirement after the NYSE suspension expires or that we will satisfy the NYSE market capitalization requirements. If we do not satisfy any of NYSE’s continued listing standards, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE unless we cure the deficiency during the period provided by the NYSE. If the NYSE were to delist our common stock, it is likely that the liquidity of our common stock will be substantially reduced, which could significantly reduce our stock price. We paid quarterly dividends on our common stock in 2008 and years prior thereto. Our Board of Directors has decided to suspend the payment of dividends on our common stock to enhance our liquidity and capital position in the current challenging environment. We do not intend to pay a dividend for the first quarter of 2009, and we cannot be sure when, whether or at what level we will resume paying dividends on our common stock. Suspension of dividend payments may cause some current stockholders to sell our common stock, which could further depress our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 