Item 1A. Risk Factors—It is unlikely we will recover our investment in FGIC. We are under no obligation, nor do we intend, to provide additional capital to FGIC. 43 Table of Contents On November 20, 2009, FGIC filed with its primary regulator, the New York State Insurance Department (the “NYID”), its Quarterly Statement for the period ending September 30, 2009, in which FGIC reported a surplus to policyholders deficit at September 30, 2009 of $865,834,577 and an impairment of its required minimum surplus to policyholders at September 30, 2009 of $932,234,577. On November 24, 2009, FGIC announced that the NYID had issued an order requiring FGIC to suspend paying any and all claims and prohibiting FGIC from writing any new business. This announcement also noted that the NYID order requires FGIC to take such steps as necessary to remove the impairment of FGIC’s capital and to return to compliance with its applicable minimum surplus to policyholders requirement by no later than March 25, 2010, or such subsequent date as the NYID deems appropriate, without limiting in any way the NYID’s ability to seek rehabilitation or liquidation of FGIC prior to such date. The NYID order further requires FGIC to provide the NYID a proposed surplus restoration plan to remove FGIC’s capital impairment and return FGIC to compliance with its minimum surplus to policyholders requirement. On January 6, 2010, FGIC announced that it had submitted to the NYID a proposed surplus restoration plan. In February 2010, FGIC released its 2009 year-end statutory-basis financial statements that reported a surplus to policyholders deficit at December 31, 2009 of $1,281,420,000 and an impairment of its required minimum surplus to policyholders at December 31, 2009 of $1,347,820,000. As of December 31, 2009, FGIC Corporation had $261,895,000 of principal amount of senior notes outstanding (net of senior notes held by FGIC Corporation) and $46,000,000 of principal amount of debt outstanding under its credit facility. In addition, FGIC Corporation had preferred stock outstanding with a redemption price as of December 31, 2009 of approximately $344,774,000. FGIC Corporation has stated that it did not make the January 15, 2010 interest payment on its senior notes when due and did not cure such default during the thirty day grace period. As a result, FGIC Corporation is in default under its senior notes. In addition, FGIC Corporation has disclosed that the administrative agent for its credit facility has asserted that an event of default has occurred and is continuing under FGIC Corporation’s credit facility as a result of FGIC’s failure to pay claims when due (following the NYID’s November 24, 2009 order that FGIC suspend paying claims) and that the administrative agent may further assert than an additional event of default has occurred as a result of FGIC Corporation’s failure to make the January 15, 2010 interest payment on its senior notes prior to the end of the grace period. FGIC Corporation has stated that it does not plan to recommence debt service payments in the absence of a successful restructuring of its debts. In their respective 2009 year-end financial statements, FGIC Corporation and FGIC stated that their respective management had concluded that there was substantial doubt about the abilities of FGIC Corporation and FGIC to continue as going concerns. As of March 4, 2010, FGIC had not concluded a plan that would remove FGIC’s capital impairment and return FGIC to compliance with its minimum surplus to policyholders requirement. Sale of RAM Re. In 2009, MIC sold its entire investment in RAM Re, which benefited MIC’s liquidity and capital position. MIC previously reduced its carrying value of its investment in RAM Re to zero. G. Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2009, The PMI Group and its consolidated subsidiaries had total cash and cash equivalents of $0.7 billion and investments of $2.6 billion. The PMI Group’s Board of Directors oversees our investment portfolio, including our unconsolidated subsidiaries, approves investment strategies, and monitors our investment performance. The U.S. companies included in the consolidated financial statements, or the U.S. Portfolio, held cash and cash equivalents and investments of $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. Our U.S. Portfolio is managed by an external investment management firm. 44 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the rating distributions of our consolidated investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, excluding common stocks) as of December 31, 2009: December 31, 2009 2008 AAA or equivalent 48 % 59 % AA 24 % 24 % A 24 % 14 % BBB 4 % 3 % Total 100 % 100 % Our ten largest holdings at December 31, 2009 appear in the table below: Market Value (Dollars in thousands) 1. New York, NY $ 76,713 2. Metropolitan Transportation Authority NY 59,895 3. Chicago, IL O’ Hare International Airport 51,145 4. California St. 49,976 5. Florida St. Board of Education Lottery Revenue 45,571 6. Miami-Dade County FL School Board 43,156 7. Westchester Tobacco Asset 41,233 8. Louisville & Jefferson County KY Sewer 40,020 9. New York, NY City Transitional Financing Authority 38,184 10. Chicago, IL 37,370 $ 483,263 We manage the U.S. Portfolio to achieve the goals of providing a predictable, high level of investment income, while maintaining adequate levels of liquidity, safety and preservation of capital. Growth of capital and surplus through long-term market appreciation are secondary considerations. Realization of taxable capital gains is minimized and emphasis is given to credit quality, price volatility and diversification, for each investment category as well as for the portfolio as a whole. As of December 31, 2009, based on market value and excluding cash and cash equivalents, approximately 100% of the U.S. Portfolio was invested in fixed income securities and preferred stocks. During 2009, we recorded a realized loss of $10.6 million related to preferred securities held in our U.S. investment portfolio. We may have additional impairments for preferred or other securities if they meet the criteria for other-than-temporary impairment due to continuing stress in the capital markets. We do not invest in non-agency mortgage-backed securities. Investments held by The PMI Group’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the insurer investment laws of each of the states in which they are licensed. These statutes, designed to preserve insurer assets for the protection of policyholders, set limits on the percentage of assets that an insurer can hold in certain investment categories (e.g., under Arizona law, no more than 20% in equity securities) and with a single issuer (e.g., 10% under Arizona law). PMI Europe’s and PMI Canada’s investments are subject to the investment policies adopted by their respective boards of directors and are managed by investment advisory firms under separate investment management agreements. We regularly review these entities’ investment strategies and performances. The investment policies specify that the portfolios must be invested predominantly in intermediate-term and high-grade bonds. 45 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, PMI Europe had $42.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $129.4 million of investments which are managed by an external investment management firm. The investment portfolio primarily consists of Euro, British Pounds Sterling, and U.S. dollar denominated fixed income securities issued by sovereign, agency and corporate entities. The portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 4.0 as of December 31, 2009. PMI Europe’s portfolio did not contain investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, PMI Canada had $4.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $14.3 million of investments which are managed by an external investment management firm. The investment portfolio consists of Canadian dollar and U.S. dollar denominated fixed income securities issued by sovereign, agency and corporate entities. The portfolio’s option-adjusted duration, including cash and cash equivalents, was 1.7 at December 31, 2009. PMI Canada’s portfolio did not contain investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2009. We review the investment portfolios and strategies of our unconsolidated subsidiaries on a quarterly basis. Through our representation on their boards of directors, we have a limited ability to influence their investment management decisions. H. Employees As of December 31, 2009, The PMI Group, together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries and CMG MI, had 600 full-time and part-time employees, of which 567 persons performed services primarily for PMI, 5 were employed by PMI Europe and 28 performed services primarily for CMG MI. Our employees are not unionized and we consider our employee relations to be good. In addition, we had 113 temporary workers as of December 31, 2009. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A. Capital and Liquidity Constraints We may face liquidity issues at our holding company, The PMI Group, and if an event of default were to occur under our credit facility, our business would suffer. We currently have outstanding borrowings of $125 million under our credit facility. At December 31, 2009, The PMI Group held cash and marketable securities of $61.5 million. The PMI Group is a holding company and conducts its business operations through various subsidiaries. Historically, The PMI Group’s principal sources of funds have been dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and income from its investment portfolio. State insurance regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by The PMI Group’s insurance subsidiaries without the consent of the applicable regulator. As a result of, among other things, MIC’s losses and the decline in its capital position, MIC did not pay dividends to The PMI Group in 2008 or 2009, and we do not expect that MIC will be able to pay dividends in 2010. As discussed under There is no assurance that we will be able to raise needed capital on a timely basis and on favorable terms, or at all below, the substantial decline in our market capitalization, the downgrades in the ratings of our debt securities and our significant operating losses, combined with difficult market conditions generally and in our industry specifically, limit our ability to obtain debt or equity financing in capital markets transactions or from private sources. Under the terms of our credit facility, we are required to maintain a minimum Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth (as defined in the facility) of at least $700 million at December 31, 2009 and $500 million from January 1, 2010 through the maturity date of the facility of October 24, 2011. Our Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth, as defined in the credit facility, was $1.0 billion, as compared to a net worth requirement of $700 million at December 31, 2009. Our Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth will be adversely affected by our continued losses and other factors negatively affecting our financial position. Absent significant additional capital, our Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth will decline in 2010. Although we currently expect to remain in compliance, due to continuing losses and other factors negatively affecting our financial position, there is a risk that we will not be able to maintain the minimum Adjusted 46 Table of Contents Consolidated Net Worth as required by the credit facility. If we were to anticipate being, or were to become, unable to maintain the required minimum Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth, we intend to pursue one or more of the following actions - (1) negotiate with the lenders under our credit facility to amend or waive compliance with the covenant, (2) seek to sell certain assets, including the QBE Note prior to maturity, for an amount sufficient to repay the credit facility and (3) other corporate initiatives, inclusive of expense reductions, within our control to maintain compliance with the covenant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully effectuate one or more of the above measures in a timely manner or at all. In addition, even if we are able to sell certain assets or execute corporate initiatives, there can be no assurance that we will maintain the minimum Adjusted Consolidated Net Worth required under the credit facility thereafter. In addition, under our credit facility, upon the occurrence of certain events, we may be required to reduce our outstanding borrowing below $125 million and the size of the facility may be permanently reduced below $125 million. We may be required to make such a reduction and repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings, even when we have not received funds sufficient to repay such amounts. For example, the size of the credit facility could be reduced if the value of the QBE Note decreases, including as a result of quarterly estimates prepared by an independent actuary. See MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and Uses of Funds—The PMI Group Liquidity—The QBE Note. The value of the QBE Note will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and difficult to predict, including judgments by the independent actuary as to ultimate projected losses on the PMI Australia insurance policies as of June 30, 2008 that were acquired by QBE. We cannot be certain that we will not be required to repay the credit facility in whole or in part as a result of a decline in the value of the QBE Note or otherwise. Failure to comply with the covenants (including the adjusted consolidated net worth covenant) or failure to pay amounts due under our credit facility would be events of default under our credit facility. Upon an event of default, we would likely be required to repay all outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility and the lenders under the credit facility would have the right to terminate their loan commitments under the facility. In addition, an event of default under the facility, if not cured within 30 days after notice from the trustee for our senior notes or from holders of our senior notes, would cause an event of default under our outstanding senior notes and could require us to repay all our outstanding senior notes. We currently do not have sufficient funds at our holding company to repay the credit facility or the senior notes. Unless we raise substantial additional capital or achieve significant capital relief in the first quarter of 2010, MIC will fail to meet various capital adequacy requirements and could be required to cease writing new business and could be subject to the terms of its runoff support agreement with Allstate. At December 31, 2009, MIC’s excess minimum policyholders’ position was $63.9 million, and MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio was 22.1 to 1. Unless we raise substantial additional capital or achieve significant additional statutory capital relief in the first quarter of 2010, MIC’s excess minimum policyholders’ position will decline and risk-to-capital ratio will increase beyond levels necessary to meet regulatory capital adequacy requirements. If this were to occur, as described below, MIC could be required to immediately suspend writing new business in some states. Any such failure to meet the capital adequacy requirements of one or more states could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business. See Our plan to write certain new mortgage insurance in a subsidiary of MIC, while progressing, may not be successful and, even if it is implemented in some states, it may not allow us to continue to write mortgage insurance in other states, below. In sixteen states, if a mortgage insurer does not meet a required minimum policyholders’ position (which amount fluctuates and is calculated in accordance with applicable state statutory formulae) or exceeds a maximum permitted risk-to-capital ratio (generally 25 to 1), it may be prohibited from writing new business until its policyholders’ position meets the minimum or its risk-to-capital ratio falls below the limit, as applicable. In certain of those states, the applicable regulations require a mortgage insurer to immediately cease writing new business if and so long as it fails to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements. In other states, the applicable regulator has discretion as to whether the mortgage insurer may continue writing new business. In 2009, North Carolina, Arizona and California adopted legislation giving the respective state’s insurance 47 Table of Contents regulators such discretion. Thirty-four other states do not have specific capital adequacy requirements for mortgage insurers. We and other mortgage insurers continue to discuss with the remaining states that have regulations requiring a mortgage insurer to immediately cease writing new business if capital adequacy requirements are not met, the potential adoption of legislation similar to the laws enacted in Arizona, California and North Carolina. MIC’s principal regulator is the Arizona Department of Insurance (the “Department”). The Department notified MIC in the third quarter of 2009 of its initiation of a limited scope examination to determine, among other things, whether to exercise discretion and permit MIC to continue writing new business in the event MIC fails to maintain Arizona’s minimum policyholders’ position requirement. On February 10, 2010, MIC received a letter from the Department waiving, until December 31, 2011, the requirement that MIC maintain the Arizona required minimum policyholders’ position to write new business. The waiver may be withdrawn by the Arizona Director of Insurance in her sole discretion at any time if the facts and circumstances warrant such action. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the period during which the waiver will remain in effect. The waiver also imposes certain requirements and restrictions on MIC, as discussed in Item 1(C). Business—Certain Regulatory and Other Issues Facing PMI. If the Department were to withdraw the waiver and MIC fails to maintain Arizona’s minimum policyholders’ position, we would likely be required to suspend writing new business in all states. In addition, we believe that certain insurance regulators could interpret their respective states’ statutes to require a mortgage insurer to suspend writing new business in all states if it fails to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirement of their respective states. We cannot predict whether and under what circumstances an insurance regulator might exercise its discretion to permit MIC to write new business or, in the case of the Department, under what circumstances it might modify or terminate the waiver MIC has received. Moreover, even if an insurance regulator were to exercise its discretion to permit MIC to continue writing new business, we may be unable to write new business in other states in which MIC fails to meet regulatory capital requirements, and regulators in certain other states could take the position that MIC must suspend writing new business nationwide. In states that do not have capital adequacy requirements, it is not clear what actions the applicable insurance regulators would take if we failed to meet the capital adequacy requirement established by another state. Accordingly, if MIC fails to meet the capital adequacy requirements in one or more states, MIC may have to immediately suspend writing new business in some or all states in which it does business. Moreover, even with the waiver, if MIC breached regulatory capital adequacy requirements, there is a risk that certain of our customer relationships would be negatively impacted. From time to time, we have discussed with certain state insurance regulators their financially hazardous condition regulations generally applicable to licensed insurance companies and those states’ interpretive positions that we are, or could be, in violation of their respective regulations. None of these states has taken any action against MIC to date. If any of those states or other states having similar financially hazardous condition regulations (which are most states) were to conclude that MIC was in a financially hazardous condition, MIC may be required to cease writing new business in that state. Under the terms of our runoff support agreement with Allstate Insurance Company, MIC is subject to restrictions that may apply if its risk-to-capital ratio exceeds 23 to 1. Under the runoff support agreement, among other things, if MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio equals or exceeds 23 to 1 at three consecutive monthly measurement dates, MIC may not enter into new insurance or reinsurance contracts without the consent of Allstate Insurance Company. If following such time as MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 23 to 1, Allstate Insurance Company were to make any payments on account of specified third party claims, or if MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 24.5 to 1, the runoff support agreement requires MIC to transfer substantially all of its liquid assets to a trust account for the payment of MIC’s obligations to policyholders. The original risk-in-force on policies covered under the Allstate runoff support agreement has been reduced from approximately $13 billion in 1994 to approximately $46 million as of December 31, 2009 (less than 1% of the original risk-in-force). We expect any potential future losses associated with the remaining risk-in-force under the Allstate runoff support agreement to be immaterial and total loss reserves on the remaining risk-in-force were approximately $1 million 48 Table of Contents as of December 31, 2009 (less than 1% of MIC’s total loss reserves as of the same date). The remaining business has an average LTV of less than 40%. Any failure to meet the capital requirements set forth in the runoff support agreement with Allstate Insurance Company could, if pursued by Allstate, have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our plan to write certain new mortgage insurance in a subsidiary of MIC, while progressing, may not be successful and, even if it is implemented in some states, it may not allow us to continue to write mortgage insurance in other states. In the event that MIC is unable to continue to write new mortgage insurance in one or more states, we are working on a plan to enable us to write new mortgage insurance in those states by PMI Mortgage Assurance Co. (“PMAC”). PMAC is a subsidiary of MIC and was formerly known as Commercial Loan Insurance Corporation. PMAC is currently licensed to write insurance in all states except Connecticut, Michigan and New York. In seven other states, PMAC is applying to revise the line of insurance business it is authorized to transact so that it may begin writing residential mortgage guaranty insurance in those states. There is no guarantee that PMAC will be able to obtain insurance licenses in Connecticut, Michigan or New York or approval to revise its existing licenses in other impacted states. In addition, before PMAC can begin writing new business, Freddie Mac must approve PMAC as an eligible mortgage insurer. On February 12, 2010, Fannie Mae approved PMAC as a direct issuer of mortgage guaranty insurance. Fannie Mae’s approval terminates on the earlier of December 31, 2011 or the date that MIC ceases to transact new business in all jurisdictions in which it is licensed. The approval is subject to a number of detailed conditions and restrictions on our business, as discussed in Item 1(C). Business —Certain Regulatory and Other Issues Facing PMI, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy these conditions or comply with the restrictions. PMAC is currently in negotiations with Freddie Mac about becoming an eligible insurer under Freddie Mac’s criteria. In the event MIC is prohibited from writing new business in certain states, there is no assurance that PMAC would be able to obtain, in a timely manner or at all, the appropriate insurance licenses in all applicable states. In addition, certain customers may choose not to purchase mortgage insurance from us in any state in the event that we cannot offer mortgage insurance through the combined companies in all fifty states. Our inability to successfully and timely implement this plan, in the event MIC is unable to continue writing new mortgage insurance in certain states, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise needed capital on a timely basis and on favorable terms, or at all. As a result of continued losses in 2009, and our expectation that we will continue to incur significant losses in 2010, we need to procure significant amounts of additional capital. In response to our capital constraints, we managed our new insurance writings in 2009. In addition, we implemented a number of capital and business initiatives designed to mitigate losses and/or generate capital relief for PMI and The PMI Group, including HPI initiatives, restructuring of certain modified pool contracts, contribution of PIC to MIC and the sale of RAM Re. We are also exploring other alternatives to enhance our liquidity and capital, including debt or equity offerings and/or other capital relief initiatives at PMI. The amount and timing of capital we require could depend on a number of factors, such as: • the performance of our U.S. mortgage insurance operations, which is affected by, among other things, the economy, unemployment, default and cure rates and losses and LAE; • levels of new insurance written; • our ability to comply with capital adequacy requirements imposed by regulators or third parties; • rating agencies and GSE requirements and determinations; 49 Table of Contents • the performance of our investment portfolio and the extent to which we are required to impair portions of the portfolio as a result of deteriorating capital markets; • financial and other covenants and event of default triggers in our credit facility; • the performance of PMI Europe, which is affected by the U.S. and European mortgage markets and, among other things, changes in the fair value of CDS derivative contracts resulting from the widening of RMBS credit spreads; and • any requirements to provide capital under the PMI Europe or CMG MI capital support agreements, which are discussed in—We have been and will continue to be negatively impacted by downgrades of MIC’s insurer financial strength ratings and Item 1(D)(1)(c). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Joint Venture—CMG Mortgage Insurance Company. Many of these factors are outside of our control and difficult to predict. In addition, some of these factors, such as the views and requirements of the rating agencies and GSEs, are subjective and not subject to specific quantitative standards. The substantial decline in our market capitalization, the downgrades in the ratings of our debt securities and our significant operating losses, combined with difficult market conditions generally and in our industry specifically, limit our ability to obtain debt or equity financing in capital markets transactions or from private sources. We cannot be sure that we will be able to raise capital on favorable terms and in the amounts that we require, or at all. In addition, continued losses or additional ratings downgrades could make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. Moreover, to the extent a capital raising transaction is undertaken in an effort to avoid an adverse action by a third party, we cannot be sure that the transaction could be completed in a timely manner to avoid such action. The terms of a capital raising transaction could require us to agree to stringent financial and operating covenants and to grant security interests on our assets to lenders or holders of our debt securities that could limit our flexibility in operating our business or our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to obtain capital in the future. We may not be able to access additional debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. If we were to obtain equity financing for a significant portion of our capital needs, any such financing would likely be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders or result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock, or both. Further, any capital initiatives in the form of reinsurance, or other risk transfer transactions of our existing portfolios, would have a dilutive effect on our future earnings, if any. We have been and will continue to be negatively impacted by downgrades of MIC’s insurer financial strength ratings. S&P’s and Moody’s insurer financial strength ratings of MIC are “B+” and “B2”, respectively. As a result of the downgrades of MIC, PMI Europe has also been downgraded and has an insurer financial strength rating of “B+” from S&P. PMI Europe’s rating is dependent in part upon the capital support of MIC. MIC’s insurer financial strength ratings have had a negative effect on our eligibility to insure mortgage loans from the GSEs and other private mortgage lenders who condition our eligibility partly on our maintenance of certain ratings and on our financial strength. See The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. Some mortgage lenders have reduced the amount of or eliminated all mortgage insurance they purchase from us as a result of the ratings downgrade. If we become ineligible to provide insurance to a portion or all of the mortgage loans from the GSEs or mortgage lenders, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, CMG MI receives capital support from MIC and is, therefore, dependent in part upon the financial strength of MIC. Therefore, sustained lower ratings may have additional negative impacts on CMG MI. 50 Table of Contents If we experience further downgrades, or if all or some of our competitors’ ratings improve and our ratings remain at the current level, our business prospects, revenues, competitive position, holding company debt ratings and the performance of our insurance subsidiaries could be significantly harmed. We will need to raise significant additional capital to improve our ratings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any additional capital in the future, either on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, or at all, or that such additional capital will be sufficient to improve our ratings. See There is no assurance that we will be able to raise needed capital on a timely basis and on favorable terms, or at all. The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. The GSEs have established approval requirements for eligible mortgage insurers, covering substantially all areas of PMI’s mortgage insurance operations, including requiring mortgage insurers to maintain certain insurer financial strength ratings. The GSEs may revise any eligibility requirement at any time in their own discretion. Indeed, both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently considering revisions to their eligibility guidelines that include greater limitations and restrictions on mortgage insurers. In 2008, in order to maintain its eligibility with the GSEs, MIC was required to submit remediation plans to each GSE outlining, among other things, the steps we are taking or plan to take to bolster MIC’s financial strength. To date each of the GSEs continues to treat MIC as an eligible mortgage insurer. There can be no assurance, however, that the GSEs will continue to treat MIC as an eligible mortgage insurer. See Item 1(D)(1)(a). U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance—Primary Flow Channel. The GSEs, in their own discretion, could require MIC to limit certain activities and practices in order to remain an eligible mortgage insurer with them. Such limitations could include, among other things, maximum risk-to-capital ratios and limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other payments, which could limit our operating flexibility and limit the areas in which we may write new business. In addition, the agreement that we entered into with Fannie Mae regarding PMAC restricts MIC and PMAC for taking a variety of actions, subject to enumerated exceptions, without Fannie Mae’s prior written consent, which is not to be unreasonably withheld, including amending certain agreements with affiliates, paying dividends or making distributions or payments of indebtedness, transferring securities, modifying underwriting guidelines beyond eligibility standards for standard GSE business, transferring new mortgage insurance business to other affiliates, entering into new, or modifying existing, expense or tax sharing arrangements or commutation transactions, or transferring assets outside the ordinary course of business or in excess of specified levels. Either or both of the GSEs could determine that MIC is no longer an eligible mortgage insurer. The GSEs, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the United States, are the primary beneficiaries of MIC’s mortgage insurance coverage. If either or both of the GSEs were to cease to consider MIC an eligible mortgage insurer and, therefore, cease accepting our mortgage insurance products, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed. A downgrade of our senior unsecured debt ratings could increase our borrowing costs and, therefore, adversely affect our liquidity. Our senior unsecured debt is rated “CCC+” by S&P and “Caa2” by Moody’s. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of financing, is dependent on various factors and would be adversely affected by continued deterioration of our unsecured debt ratings. Debt ratings are influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers, the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure, material changes in earning trends and volatility, inability to dividend monies from subsidiaries, our competitive position, and the rating agencies’ views on the future earnings prospects of our insurance subsidiaries and the mortgage insurance industry. Sustained deterioration in any one 51 Table of Contents or a combination of these factors, including our weak financial results and continued weak earnings performance, could result in additional downgrades of our debt ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Placement of our senior unsecured debt ratings on credit watch by the rating agencies increases the risk that our debt ratings may be downgraded again in the near future. As discussed above, if we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. As a result of significant volatility and uncertainty in the market, we impaired the value of certain securities held in our investment portfolio and there is a risk that additional impairments may occur in the future. In 2009, we determined that certain preferred securities held in our U.S. investment portfolio were “other-than-temporarily” impaired and incurred a $10.6 million loss related to the impairment. Changing and unprecedented market conditions have materially impacted and could continue to materially impact the valuation of investment securities in our investment portfolios, which may cause us to impair in the future some portion of the preferred and other securities remaining in our portfolio. Any decision to impair securities held in our investment portfolio would be based on our assessment of, among other things, recent credit downgrades of the applicable security or the issuer by the rating agencies; the severity and nature of the decline in market value below cost regardless of the duration of the decline, the financial condition of the applicable issuer, whether scheduled interest payments are past due and whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recoveries in fair value. Future reductions to the value of our investment securities on an other-than-temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future reductions to the value of our investment portfolios would negatively affect our capital, which could cause MIC’s excess minimum policyholders’ position to decline and its risk-to-capital ratio to increase and further constrain our ability to write new insurance. See Unless we raise substantial additional capital or achieve significant capital relief in the first quarter of 2010, MIC will fail to meet various capital adequacy requirements and could be required to cease writing new business and could be subject to the terms of its runoff support agreement with Allstate, above. B. Risks Relating to Risk Management and Loss Reserving Past rescission activity has materially reduced our loss reserve estimates, and our loss reserves will increase if we are required to reverse rescissions beyond expected levels or future rescission activity is lower than projected. In recent years, mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation with policyholders regarding the rescission of mortgage insurance coverage on individual loans under the terms of the insurers’ master policies where the mortgage insurers discovered misrepresentations by, for example, a borrower, lender or an agent of the lender. Based on PMI’s recent investigations and industry and other data, we believe that there were unexpectedly and significantly high levels of mortgage origination fraud and decreases in the quality of mortgage origination underwriting primarily in 2006 and 2007. We believe that mortgage investors are requiring significantly higher levels of mortgage repurchases by mortgage originators as a result of the unexpectedly high levels of fraudulent, negligent or otherwise noncompliant mortgage loan origination. As a result, PMI is reviewing and investigating a larger volume of insured loans and the number of loans on which coverage has been rescinded by PMI has substantially increased. Between December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, we have rescinded loans (including primary and pool) with an aggregate risk in force of approximately $643 million. As a result of these rescissions, we have reduced our loss reserves and/or risk in force for the corresponding policies. When PMI rescinds insurance coverage with respect to an investigated loan, we notify the insured of the rescission, refund all premiums associated with the insured loan, and remove the rescinded loan from our calculation of PMI’s risk in force and insurance in force. In addition, if the rescinded loan was delinquent, we cease to include that loan in our default inventory and, therefore, do not incorporate that loan into our loss reserve estimates. Accordingly, past rescission activity has materially reduced our loss reserve estimates. In arriving at our loss reserve estimates, we also consider the effect of projected future rescission activity with 52 Table of Contents respect to the current inventory of delinquent insured loans. As we expect rescission activity to remain elevated through 2010, projected future rescission activity is also materially reducing our current loss reserve estimates. To the extent that we are required to reverse rescissions beyond expected levels or actual future rescission activity is lower than projected, we would be required to increase our loss reserves in future periods. If we are unsuccessful in defending these rescissions, we would need to re-establish loss reserves for, and reassume the risk on, such rescinded loans, which could materially harm our results of operations. In some cases, our servicing customers do not produce documents necessary to perfect the claim. Most often, this is the result of the servicer’s inability to provide the loan origination file for our review. If, after repeated requests by PMI, the loan file is not produced, the claim will be denied. In our loss reserve estimation process, we do not include claim denials in our delinquent inventory and, therefore, do not incorporate them into our loss reserve estimates. Levels of claim denials have increased in 2008 and 2009. Between December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, we had claim denials (including primary and pool) with an aggregate risk in force of approximately $422 million. If our servicing customers ultimately produce a loan origination file on such loans, PMI may, under certain circumstances, review the file for potential claim payment. Our loss reserve estimation process takes into consideration this possibility, which historically has occurred infrequently. There can be no assurance, however, that the frequency will not increase in the future or that our loss reserve estimates adequately provide for such occurrences. We establish loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance policies only upon loan defaults; accordingly, our loss reserve estimates are not intended to be an estimate of future losses. The establishment of loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance business is subject to inherent uncertainty and requires significant estimates and judgment by management, principally with respect to the rate and severity of claims. In accordance with mortgage insurance industry practice, we establish loss reserves for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries only for loans in default. We establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, or LAE, based upon our estimate of unpaid losses and LAE on (i) reported mortgage loans in default and (ii) estimated defaults incurred but not yet reported to us by servicers. Accordingly loss reserves are not intended to be an estimate of total future losses, and our mortgage insurance reserving process does not take account of the impact of future losses that could occur from loans that are not in default. Because of this, our actual future losses on our insured book of business (including both current and delinquent loans) will substantially exceed the loss reserve estimates we have established on loans in default, and future notices of default on insured loans will have a material impact on our financial results. Loss reserve estimates are particularly uncertain during an economic downturn, which is characterized by market volatility and disruption. The continuing adverse economic and market conditions, including the high rate of unemployment, and resulting uncertainty with respect to the rate and severity of claims may result in substantial increases in loss reserves in the future. Additional increases in loss reserves would negatively affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, when establishing loss reserves, we rely on models that have been developed internally and by third parties to analyze and predict estimated losses relating to our current inventory of loans in default. Flaws in these models and/or in assumptions used by these models could lead to insufficient loss reserving, which could increase our ultimate losses in the future. Due to higher losses, we may be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in the future. We perform premium deficiency analyses quarterly on a single book basis for the U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations using assumptions based on our best estimates when the analyses are performed. The calculation for premium deficiency, which is the present value of expected future losses and expenses to the extent they exceed the present value of expected future premium, requires significant judgment and includes estimates of future expected premiums, expected claims, loss adjustment expenses and maintenance costs as of the date of the test. The calculation of future expected premiums uses assumptions for persistency and termination levels on policies currently in force. Assumptions for future expected losses include future expected average claim sizes and claim rates which are based on the current default rate and expected future defaults. 53 Table of Contents A premium deficiency analysis was performed on a U.S. GAAP basis, as of December 31, 2009, and we determined there was no premium deficiency in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations segment despite continued significant losses in 2009. Because this premium deficiency calculation required significant judgment and estimation, to the extent actual losses are higher or actual premiums are lower than the assumptions we used in our analysis, we could be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in future reporting periods, which could indirectly trigger an event of default under our credit facility and would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices may not anticipate all risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of unforeseen risks. We have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to borrower default risk in our insured portfolio by anticipating future risks and the magnitude of those risks. PMI has experienced and is continuing to experience material losses. The ultimate losses we incur are uncertain and will depend largely on general economic conditions, including rates of unemployment and home prices. Over the past several years, PMI has made significant changes to its underwriting and risk management policies, which have limited the types of new business PMI writes. Given the uncertainties caused by the sustained deterioration of the U.S. economy and, to the extent that a risk is unforeseen or is underestimated in terms of magnitude of loss, these policies and practices will not completely insulate us from the effects of those risks. We expect that we will continue to experience material incurred and paid losses on insurance written prior to 2009. C. U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations Current market volatility combined with falling home prices and rising unemployment have materially and adversely affected our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Through our main operating businesses, we are exposed to the risk that borrowers will default on residential mortgage loans we have insured. The current economic downturn, characterized by deteriorating and volatile credit and capital markets, falling home prices and higher unemployment, has significantly increased the likelihood of borrowers defaulting on their mortgage loans and increased defaults and claims. As a result, we have incurred higher losses, and the amount of new insurance written has declined. We expect that the economic downturn will continue and will continue to materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. As discussed in the MD& A, we significantly increased PMI’s loss reserves in 2009 as a result of the increase in PMI’s default inventory, higher claim rates, higher average claim sizes and worsened severity, which is the ratio of the claim paid to the original risk-in-force relating to the loan. Higher claim rates were driven in part by home price declines and the diminished availability of certain loan products, both of which constrain refinancing opportunities and decrease the cure rate. The increase in PMI’s average claim size was driven by higher average loan sizes and coverage levels in PMI’s portfolio, as well as declines in home prices, which limit PMI’s loss mitigation opportunities. We had significant losses in 2009 and we expect losses to continue in 2010 as a result of the continued severe economic downturn. In addition, continuing adverse market conditions have adversely affected the business of CMG MI. Under the terms of a capital support agreement, MIC has an obligation, under specified conditions, to maintain CMG MI’s risk-to-capital ratio at or below 19.0 to 1. CMG MI’s risk-to-capital ratio as of December 31, 2009 was 17.2 to 1, and there is a risk that MIC would be required to make contributions to CMG MI if its risk-to-capital ratio increases. See—Capital and Liquidity Constraints and Item 1(D)(1)(c). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Joint Venture—CMG Mortgage Insurance Company. 54 Table of Contents If the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market is changed, or if the GSEs change other policies or practices, the amount of insurance that PMI writes could further decrease, which could result in a decrease of our future revenue. The GSEs are the beneficiaries of a significant portion of the insurance policies we issue as a result of their purchases, statutorily required or otherwise, of qualifying mortgage loans from lenders or investors. Accordingly, changes in the following or other GSE policies and practices with respect to mortgage credit enhancement could significantly affect our business: • level of private mortgage insurance coverage lenders may select when private mortgage insurance is used as the required credit enhancement on low down payment mortgages; • amount of loan level delivery fees that the GSEs assess on loans that require mortgage insurance; • loan eligibility standards for loans purchased by the GSEs, which impact the conforming mortgage loan origination market, including loan quality and availability; • terms on which mortgage insurance coverage can be canceled before reaching the cancellation thresholds established by law; • whether the GSEs influence mortgage lenders’ selection of mortgage insurers providing coverage; and • GSE loss mitigation programs on insured mortgages and the circumstances in which mortgage servicers must implement such programs. In the past, the GSEs have had programs under which for certain loans lenders could choose a mortgage insurance coverage percentage that was the minimum required by the GSEs’ charters, or “charter coverage”, rather than a higher, or “standard coverage”, with the GSEs paying a lower price for loans with charter coverage. The GSEs also have had programs known as “reduced coverage”, under which on certain loans lenders could choose a coverage level that was higher than charter coverage but lower than standard coverage. PMI charges lower premium rates for charter or reduced coverage commensurate with the reduced risk. Effective January 1, 2010, Fannie Mae began giving lenders the option of selecting charter coverage on a broader array of loans and eliminated reduced coverage altogether. As the new program has only recently commenced, we cannot predict how frequently lenders will select charter coverage rather than standard coverage on loans PMI insures after January 1, 2010, and the effect of the program changes on PMI’s business is difficult to quantify. The placement of the GSEs into the conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Agency increases the likelihood that the U.S. Congress will examine the role and purpose of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market and potentially propose certain structural and other changes to the GSEs. New federal legislation or programs could reduce the level of, or eliminate entirely, the purchase of private mortgage insurance by the GSEs, or fundamentally change the manner in which the GSEs utilize credit enhancement. The Obama administration has indicated that it will outline broad principles regarding the future of the GSEs in 2010 but does not expect to submit a full legislative proposal until 2011. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently considering revisions to their eligibility guidelines that involve greater limitations and restrictions on mortgage insurers. Changes in the GSEs’ practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, harm our ability to compete and reduce the profitability of the mortgage insurance business generally and our business in particular. See also, The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility, above. Our revenues and profits could decline if PMI loses market share as a result of actions we have taken to limit new insurance written, increased industry competition and mortgage lenders and investors selecting alternatives to private mortgage insurance. The principal sources of PMI’s competition include other private mortgage insurers, several of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of public companies with direct or indirect capital reserves that provide them with potentially greater resources than we have, as well as the various alternatives to private mortgage insurance discussed below. 55 Table of Contents We believe that certain of the changes that we made during 2008 and 2009 in order to conserve capital, including our underwriting guideline changes and reducing or ceasing new insurance written with certain of our customers, have made it more difficult to compete among private mortgage insurers as we seek to write new business. Other changes we have made and actions we have taken, such as the termination of our contract underwriting operations in 2009, also have negatively impacted our relationships with certain of our current and former customers and may impact our ability to maintain or gain market share. In addition, as a result of the increase in rescission activity discussed in We are subject to heightened litigation risk related to the increase in rescissions, we are experiencing an increase in the number of disagreements with mortgage lenders, commercial banks and other mortgage originators who are our customers and are engaged in litigation. Such disagreements or litigation, even if resolved in our favor, may adversely affect our business relationships with these customers. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to write new business at desired levels, even taking into account current capital constraints, and may be unable to fully increase levels of activity in the event we obtain additional capital or capital relief and/or market conditions otherwise improve. In addition, we believe that the difficult conditions and resulting capital constraints facing mortgage insurers have provided opportunities for new entrants in the private mortgage insurance industry, and we expect that we may face increased competition from new competitors. One new private mortgage insurer, Essent US Holdings, Inc., announced that it secured equity funding, purchased an information technology and operating platform from Triad Guaranty Inc., a mortgage insurer in runoff, obtained licenses in 45 states, anticipates obtaining licenses in all states in 2010, and is approved as a qualified mortgage insurer by the GSEs. Tighter underwriting guidelines adopted industry-wide by private mortgage insurers and capital constraints in the mortgage insurance industry generally have resulted in greater demand for mortgage insurance from the FHA. As a result of federal legislation providing the FHA with greater competitive flexibility and increasing the maximum loan amount that the FHA may insure, the FHA has substantially increased its market share since early 2008 and is a significant competitor of ours. In addition, any current or new alternatives to private mortgage insurance that may develop could further reduce the market opportunities for private mortgage insurers and result in further increased competition, any of which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Given the recent changes in industry conditions, we believe that the private mortgage insurance market has significantly contracted, and we not only face increased competition from existing and new private mortgage insurers, including the FHA and VA, but also from other sources, including the following: • the GSEs pursuing arrangements that meet their charter requirement for buying loans with LTVs over 80% that do not involve the use of mortgage insurance; • lenders and investors holding mortgages in their portfolios and self-insuring; and • mortgage lenders maintaining lender recourse or participation with respect to loans sold to the GSEs. Any failure of PMI to effectively compete could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the volume of low down-payment home mortgage originations would cause our revenues to decline. Our future revenues also depend on the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations would reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and, consequently, our revenues. The volume of low down payment mortgage originations is affected by, among other factors: • general economic conditions, including access to credit markets, unemployment rates, interest rates and home prices; • government policies, including government housing policies encouraging homeownership, federal and state economic stimulus programs and policies, and GSE and lender-specific policies; and 56 Table of Contents • the availability of mortgage insurance for high LTV loans, which is affected by, among other things, general economic conditions, secondary market demand, government housing policy and capital constraints facing mortgage insurers. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations would reduce the demand for mortgage insurance products such as the ones we offer and could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if PMI were to lose the business of a major customer. PMI’s top ten customers generated 56.9% of its premiums earned in 2009. Earned premiums from Fannie Mae exceeded 8% of our consolidated revenues and represented 10.2% of PMI’s earned premiums in 2009. The loss of a significant customer for any reason could reduce our revenue and, if not replaced, harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on insured loans and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. We charge premium rates in effect at the time a policy is issued based upon our expectations regarding likely performance over the life of insurance coverage. We generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy. As a result, losses from higher than anticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums we charge on our insurance in force and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated claims could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. PMI’s primary new insurance written and risk in force includes: • Loans with LTVs exceeding 97%, known as Above-97s. As of December 31, 2009, 20.4% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Above-97s. We no longer intend to insure loans with LTVs exceeding 95%. • ARMs. As of December 31, 2009, 7.5% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of ARMs, excluding 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. • 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. As of December 31, 2009, 1.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of 2/28 Hybrid ARMs through PMI’s structured finance channel. • Alt-A loans. As of December 31, 2009, 17.0% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Alt-A loans. In June , 2008, we eliminated Alt-A loan eligibility altogether. • Interest only loans. As of December 31, 2009, 10.9% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of interest only loans. • Payment option ARMs. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 3.1% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of payment option ARMs. In April 2008, we eliminated future coverage of negatively-amortizing ARM products. • Less-than-A quality mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2009, 6.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of less-than-A quality loans. We also insure loans that have more than one of the above risk characteristics. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 2.4% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Above-97s that are less-than-A quality loans, approximately 2.4% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Alt-A loans that are also Above-97s and approximately 3.1% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of interest only loans that are also Above-97s. This “layering” of risk has increased the risk of borrower default. A material portion of these loans were written in 2005 through the first quarter of 2008. 57 Table of Contents Even in stable economic times, we expect higher default and claim rates for high-LTV, ARM, 2/28 Hybrid ARM, Alt-A, interest only, payment option ARM, and less-than-A quality loans, as well as loans with “layered” risk. Although we attempt to incorporate the higher default and claim rates associated with these loans into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. Worsening economic conditions, rising unemployment rates and/or additional house price declines could even more significantly increase the default risks associated with these loans. In addition, these same negative economic and market conditions could also significantly increase the default and claim risk on loans for which we did not assume higher default and claim rates. PMI’s loss experience may increase as its policies continue to age. Generally, we expect the majority of losses and LAE on insured loans in PMI’s current portfolio to occur during the second through the fourth years after loan origination. 58.8% of PMI’s primary risk in force as of December 31, 2009 is on insurance written from the period of January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. Accordingly, a significant percentage of the primary portfolio is in, or approaching, its peak claim years. In addition, PMI has experienced adverse and accelerated delinquency development in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 insured loan portfolios. We believe our loss experience will continue as these policies age. If the claim frequency on PMI’s risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting premium rates, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. The extent to which loan modification and other similar programs provide benefit to PMI is uncertain. In order to reduce foreclosures, the federal government, including through the FDIC and the GSEs, and some lenders have adopted programs to modify residential mortgage loans to make them more affordable to borrowers. Under the HARP refinance program discussed above in Item 1(D)(1)(a). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance—Primary Flow Channel, certain borrowers have the opportunity to refinance into loans with lower interest rates. Under the HAMP Program certain borrowers whose loans are delinquent may modify their loans if and so long as they strictly adhere to their trial modification plans during a 90 to 150 days trial period in order to complete the modification process. As of December 31, 2009, 23,180 delinquent loans in our default inventory were subject to HAMP trial periods compared to approximately 12,700 loans at September 30, 2009. We do not remove from our default inventory a loan subject to a HAMP trial modification period unless and until the trial period is completed, all required documents have been received, the loan modification is closed, and the default is officially cured. Under HAMP, a net present value test (the “NPV Test”) is used to determine if loan modifications will be offered. For loans owned or guaranteed by the GSEs, servicers may, depending on the results of the NPV Test and other factors, be required to offer loan modifications, as defined by HAMP, to borrowers. As of December 1, 2009, the GSEs changed how the NPV Test is used. These changes made it more difficult for some loans to be modified under HAMP. While we lack sufficient data to determine the impact of these changes, we believe that they may decrease the number of our loans that will participate in HAMP. These programs are in their early stages and are continuing to be developed, changed and refined. The effect of these programs on PMI depends, among other things, on the number of loans in PMI’s portfolio that will ultimately qualify for modification and officially cure and the re-default rate of the loans that ultimately are modified. Our estimates of the number of loans that may qualify for modification programs are inherently uncertain. Because re-default rates can be affected by a number of factors (including changes in home values and unemployment rates), we cannot predict what the ultimate re-default rate will be. Accordingly, we cannot be certain what the benefits of these programs will be for PMI or whether these programs will provide material benefits to PMI. 58 Table of Contents Geographic concentration of PMI’s primary insurance in force could continue to increase losses and harm our financial performance. We are affected by economic downturns and other events in specific regions of the United States where a large portion of our U.S. business is concentrated. As of December 31, 2009, 10.1% of PMI’s primary risk in force was located in Florida and 7.7% was located in California. We are currently experiencing higher levels of losses in those states. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, 21.1% of our primary risk-in-force related to loans located in Illinois, Georgia, New Jersey, New York and Ohio. Collectively these states experienced higher default rates in 2009 than other states in the U.S. as a result of relatively weak economic activity, higher unemployment rates and declines in home prices. We expect that our loss experience with respect to risk-in-force in these states will remain elevated in the near future, which could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We delegate underwriting authority to mortgage lenders which could cause us to insure mortgage loans that do not conform to our underwriting guidelines, and thereby increase claims and losses. More than 86% of PMI’s flow new insurance written is underwritten pursuant to a delegated underwriting program under which, subject to periodic audit, certain mortgage lenders may determine whether mortgage loans meet our program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. If PMI determines that a lender participating in the delegated program commits PMI to insure a loan that fails to meet all of the approved underwriting guidelines, subject to certain exceptions, PMI has the right to exclude or rescind coverage on the loan. PMI may also suspend or terminate the insured’s delegated authority to extend coverage to new loans if it determines that the insured has not been complying with approved underwriting guidelines. In 2008 and 2009, as a result of significant variance from our quality control standards, we terminated the right of certain customers to participate in the delegated program. Because PMI does not review the underwriting determinations on all loans, claims may be paid on certain loans with unacceptable risk profiles or which failed to meet approved underwriting guidelines at the time of origination. In addition, certain customers who fail to comply with approved underwriting guidelines may go undetected and continue to submit noncompliant loans under their delegated authority. Higher persistency rates in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations place additional constraints on capital, making it more difficult to write new business. As discussed in Item 1(D)(5). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Business Composition—Persistency, PMI’s persistency rate has increased in recent years, rising to 84.3% in 2009 from 82.2% and 75.5% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. PMI’s persistency rate has been positively impacted by lower borrower refinance activity of PMI insured loans, primarily as a result of declining home prices and the diminished availability of loan products. To the extent that home prices continue to decline and residential mortgage refinance activity in the insured loan market remains relatively low, we expect that PMI’s persistency rate will remain high and therefore limit the rate at which PMI’s existing risk in force runs off. Because PMI must maintain sufficient capital to satisfy regulatory risk-to-capital metrics, higher persistency rates, even though they create relatively higher revenues, may constrain PMI’s capital position and its ability to write new business, which may adversely impact our future revenues and results of operations. We reinsure a portion of our mortgage insurance default risk with lender-affiliated captive reinsurance companies, which reduces our net premiums written and earned. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, offer products to lenders that are designed to allow them to participate in the risks and rewards of the mortgage insurance business. Many of the major mortgage lenders have established affiliated captive reinsurance companies. These captive reinsurance companies assume a portion of the risks associated with the lender’s insured mortgage loans in exchange for a percentage of the associated gross premiums. Because the GSEs currently prohibit cessions of gross risk or gross premium cedes greater than 25% to captive reinsurers and PMI ceased seeking excess-of-loss (XOL) captive reinsurance arrangements, we expect 59 Table of Contents the portion of our new primary insurance business that is subject to captive arrangements to decrease. PMI did not enter into any new XOL captive reinsurance agreements in 2009. See Item 1(D)(9)(a). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Reinsurance—Captive Reinsurance. PMI will continue to cede premiums under its in-force XOL contracts until they run-off and mature pursuant to the existing terms and conditions, and as a result, captive reinsurance agreements will continue to negatively impact our net premiums written and earned. If we are unable to keep pace with the technological demands of our customers or with the technology-related products and services offered by our competitors, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Participants in the mortgage lending and mortgage insurance industries rely on e-commerce and other technology to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide our products and services electronically via the Internet or electronic data transmission, and we process the significant majority of our new insurance written and claims processing electronically. We expect this to continue, and accordingly, we believe that it is essential that we continue to invest resources in maintaining electronic connectivity with our customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technology. Because of capital constraints, we may reduce costs by, among other things, decreasing the level of resources devoted to e-commerce and technology upgrades. Our business may suffer if we do not keep pace with the technological demands of our customers and the technological capabilities of our competitors. D. Regulatory and Litigation Risk We are subject to heightened litigation risk related to the increase in rescissions. We believe the rise in the numbers of rescissions heightens the risk of litigation concerning our rescission decisions. As we continue to review our insured loan portfolios, we will likely rescind more insurance policies in the future. The rise in the numbers of rescissions has resulted in lenders and policyholders increasingly challenging our specific rescissions of coverage on individual loans and our general right to rescind coverage under the terms and conditions of PMI’s master policies. Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings, below, discusses certain rescission-related litigation in which PMI is currently involved. In addition to the litigation discussed in that section, we are discussing with certain policyholders their objections to PMI’s rescissions of large groups of loans that in the aggregate are material, and as a result, we expect that PMI will engage in litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings related to some portion of these challenged rescissions if we are unable to resolve them informally. Addressing such disputes through litigation or otherwise is likely to be costly even if we are ultimately successful in defending against such claims. As discussed in We establish loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance policies only upon loan defaults; accordingly, our loss reserve estimates are not intended to be an estimate of future losses above, if we are not successful in defending these rescissions, we would need to re-establish loss reserves for, and re-assume the risk on, such rescinded loans, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to litigation risk generally. The mortgage insurance industry and PMI face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Consumers are bringing a growing number of lawsuits against home mortgage lenders and settlement service providers. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation alleging violations of RESPA and FCRA. In the past, a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers, including PMI, under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have provided products or services at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. RESPA precludes PMI from providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, in exchange for the referral of settlement services. 60 Table of Contents Litigation relating to capital markets transactions and securities-related matters in general has increased and is expected to continue to increase as a result of the deterioration of the capital, credit, housing and mortgage markets. In March 2008, we and certain of our executive officers were named in securities class action complaints filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. In April 2008, we and certain of our executive officers and directors were named in two shareholder derivative suits. Both of the derivative suits assert various acts and/or omissions against the defendants. The status of these litigation matters is described below in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We continue to believe that we have meritorious defenses to these lawsuits and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. We cannot predict whether additional actions of the types described herein, or other actions, will be brought against us or other mortgage insurers in the future. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to regulatory risk and have been subject to increased scrutiny by insurance and other regulatory authorities. PMI and the mortgage insurance industry are subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation by state insurance departments whose primary goal is to safeguard insurers’ solvency for the protection of policyholders. Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad powers to supervisory agencies and officials to examine and investigate insurance companies and to enforce rules or exercise discretion touching almost every aspect of PMI’s business. We have been subject to increased scrutiny by the Arizona Department of Insurance (the “Department”) and other state insurance regulatory authorities as a result of our substantial losses in recent periods and the decrease in our statutory capital. As discussed above in Unless we raise substantial additional capital or achieve significant capital relief in the first quarter of 2010, MIC will fail to meet various capital adequacy requirements and could be required to cease writing new business and could be subject to the terms of its runoff support agreement with Allstate, the Department notified MIC in the third quarter of 2009 of its initiation of a limited scope examination to determine, among other things, whether to exercise discretion and permit MIC to continue writing new business in the event MIC fails to maintain Arizona’s minimum policyholders’ position requirement. On February 10, 2010, MIC received a letter from the Department waiving, until December 31, 2011, the requirement that MIC maintain Arizona’s required minimum policyholders’ position to write new business. The waiver may be withdrawn by the Arizona Director of Insurance in her sole discretion at any time, if the facts and circumstances warrant such action. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the period during which the waiver will remain in effect. See Item 1(C). Business—Certain Regulatory and Other Issues Facing PMI. In addition, from time to time, we have discussed with certain state insurance regulators their financially hazardous condition regulations generally applicable to licensed insurance companies and those states’ interpretive positions that we are, or could be, in violation of their respective regulations. None of these states has taken any action against MIC to date. As a result of these and other potential future examinations or discussions, state insurance regulatory authorities could require us to cease writing new business or take other actions to restrict our ability to conduct business. Such regulatory actions would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities concerning certain practices, including captive reinsurance arrangements. MIC continues to respond to requests from the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for information regarding its captive reinsurance arrangements among other matters. We cannot predict whether the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the HUD OIG’s administrative subpoenas will lead to further inquiries, or investigations, of these matters, or the scope, timing or outcome of any inquiry or actions by those Departments or any inquiry or actions that may be commenced by state insurance departments, attorneys general or other regulators. 61 Table of Contents As a result of the deterioration of the housing and mortgage markets in the U.S., regulatory oversight of our insurance subsidiaries may significantly increase in the future. Increased federal or state regulatory scrutiny could lead to new legal precedents, new regulations or new practices, or regulatory actions or investigations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Changes to the risk-based capital rules applicable to the GSEs could cause PMI’s business to suffer. The FHFA, the agency which currently regulates the GSEs, has risk-based capital rules that prescribe treatment of credit enhancement issued by private mortgage insurers and provides capital guidelines for the GSEs in connection with their use of other types of credit protection counterparties in addition to mortgage insurers. The rules require the GSEs to hold different amounts of capital against mortgage insurance coverage according to the rating of the mortgage insurance company that issued the policy. See Item 1(D)(1)(a). U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance-Primary Flow Channel. Although these rules were suspended in 2008, the FHFA, or other governmental authority, including Congress, may revisit the risk-based capital rules and the treatment of mortgage insurance at any time in the future. If the rules change or if the GSEs begin again to follow the FHFA’s risk-based capital rules, demand for our mortgage insurance products could decrease and our consolidated financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord may affect the use of mortgage insurance. The Basel II Accord establishes a risk-based capital framework that is applicable to the 10 to 12 largest banking organizations in the United States, as well as to smaller banking organizations with significant international operations. The proposal is being phased-in, and is not expected to be fully implemented in the United States until 2012. However, in light of the current disruption in the financial markets, it is likely that many institutions will ask for a postponement in the mandatory implementation date, and such a request may be granted at the discretion of U.S. bank regulators. In addition, since further changes in the capital framework have been suggested at the international level, the full implementation may be further delayed if significant amendments are adopted. Under the Basel II Accord as adopted in the U.S., banking organizations will determine capital requirements for mortgage loans based on their respective internal models with parameters such as the probability of default and loss given a default. We expect that mortgage insurance will be factored in these internal models and will likely provide mortgage lenders with capital relief by reducing the capital charge on mortgages, although the extent of capital relief will depend upon the particular model employed by the banking organization. We cannot predict the extent of any benefits that lenders will ultimately obtain under Basel II, or how any such benefits may affect the opportunities for growth of the mortgage insurance industry. If Basel II is implemented in a manner that does not provide sufficient capital relief to lenders using mortgage insurance, our business could be negatively impacted. E. Other Risk If the value of the contingent note we received in connection with our sale of PMI Australia is reduced, our financial condition could suffer. In connection with the sale of PMI Australia, MIC received approximately $746 million in cash and the QBE Note in the principal amount of approximately $187 million, with interest accruing through September 2011 when it matures and is payable. The actual amount owed under the QBE Note is subject to reduction to the extent that the sum of (i) claims paid between June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2011, with respect to PMI Australia’s policies in force at June 30, 2008, (ii) increases in reserves with respect to such policies at June 30, 2011 as compared to June 30, 2008 and (iii) projected ultimate unpaid losses in excess of such reserves as of June 30, 2011 (together, the “ultimate projected losses”) exceeds $237.6 million (50% of the unearned premium reserve of such policies at June 30, 2008). Based on the information made available to us on the performance of such PMI Australia policies through December 31, 2009, we do not currently expect that, as of December 31, 2009, ultimate projected losses with respect to such policies will exceed $237.6 million. However, we have not yet received the report with respect to the loss performance of PMI Australia’s insurance policies as of December 31, 2009, prepared by an independent actuary as of December 31, 2009. The last such actuarial report that we 62 Table of Contents received was as of September 30, 2009. The performance of such policies will depend, among other things, on the performance of the Australian housing market and economy over the next several years and other factors that are beyond our control and difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the performance of such PMI Australia policies will not deteriorate in the future or that any such deterioration will not reduce the amount due on the QBE Note. In addition, the amount payable on the QBE Note is subject to reduction in the event that MIC is required to satisfy claims for breach of warranty under the agreements entered into for the sale of PMI Australia or TPG is required to satisfy claims for breach of warranty under the agreements entered into for the sale of PMI Asia, in each case if such claims are not otherwise satisfied by April 1, 2010. QBE has not asserted any such warranty claims to date. We cannot be sure that the amount due on the QBE Note will not be reduced. In addition, the QBE Note is an unsecured obligation of the note issuer, and we cannot be certain that the note issuer will be able to make payment on the QBE Note when due. Any of these events would impair our ability to recover the full value of the QBE Note, reduce or eliminate the lenders’ commitments under our credit facility and require us to repay the amount borrowed under our credit facility to the extent in excess of any reduced or eliminated commitments. Any such failure to recover payment in full of the QBE Note or required repayment could materially impair our liquidity. See the MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and Uses of Funds—The PMI Group Liquidity—The QBE Note. We are exposed to risk in the winding down of our European and Canadian operations. Substantial risks remain in the winding down of our European operations as a result of the sustained adverse economic conditions in the United States and, to a lesser degree, the European Union. As a result of PMI Europe’s exposure to U.S. subprime risk under reinsurance agreements and the continued losses associated with such risk, PMI Europe incurred additional losses of $8.4 million and paid claims of $55.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. If the performance of these exposures continues to deteriorate, PMI Europe will continue to experience increased losses and increases to its loss reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. Certain of PMI Europe’s CDS contracts contain collateral support provisions which, upon certain defined circumstances, including deterioration of the underlying mortgage loan performance, require PMI Europe to post collateral for the benefit of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2009, PMI Europe had posted collateral of $14.7 million on its CDS transactions. As of December 31, 2009, the maximum amount of collateral that PMI Europe may be required to post under these contracts is approximately $37.1 million, including the $14.7 million already posted. We estimate, based on expected defaults and loss payments, that the amount of additional collateral to be posted will be up to $11.4 million in the next twelve months. The actual collateral posted will depend upon performance of the underlying mortgage portfolios, claim payments and the extent to which PMI Europe is successful in commuting these contracts. PMI Europe is currently engaged in negotiations with one reinsured counterparty regarding the appropriate amounts of collateral required to be posted by PMI Europe under the terms of the applicable reinsurance agreement. If PMI Europe is required to post additional collateral, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. As a result of changes in the fair value of its CDS contracts, PMI Europe’s financial results have been volatile. The fair value of derivative liabilities was $17.3 million and $54.5 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and is included in other liabilities on the balance sheet. The fair value of these CDS liabilities includes payment obligations that have been incurred but unpaid as of the balance sheet date. The fair values of PMI Europe’s CDS contracts are affected predominantly by estimated changes in credit spreads of the underlying obligations, which are dependent on the performance of certain prime residential mortgage loans originated throughout Europe, which are the reference assets for the underlying mortgage-related securities. See Note 10, Fair Value Disclosures, to our Consolidated Financial Statements for PMI Europe’s methodology in estimating the fair value of its CDS contracts. As estimated credit spreads change, the fair values of these CDS contracts will change and the resulting gains and losses will be recorded in our operating results. In addition, with 63 Table of Contents the adoption of Topic 820, we have incorporated our non-performance risk into the market value of our derivative assets and liabilities. Excluding our non-performance risk, the fair value of these CDS liabilities would have been $19.3 million as of December 31, 2009. As discussed in Note 10, Fair Value Disclosures, to our Consolidated Financial Statements, in estimating the fair values of CDS contracts, PMI Europe incorporates expected life of contract dates in its internal valuation models. To the extent that credit spreads are higher than at the time of inception of the transaction, extending the expected life from the call date to the maturity date could result in PMI Europe recognizing further significant mark-to-market losses. If counterparties elect to extend PMI Europe’s CDS contracts and spreads remain at their current levels, mark-to-market losses could be material and there will be a greater likelihood of incurring higher than currently expected realized losses in the form of paid claims on the contracts. Although we do not currently expect that the fair value portion of the CDS liability related to fluctuations in market spreads and our cost of capital will result in any cash outflows, higher than expected defaults, higher loss severities or the acceleration in the timing of claim payments would likely result in an increase in PMI’s expected discounted future net cash outflows and fair value liability, which could materially impact our results of operations. All of the above risks could result in material losses to PMI Europe in our winding down of its operations and, if significant enough in the aggregate, could require MIC to make additional capital contributions to PMI Europe pursuant to its capital support agreements, which could harm the financial condition of MIC. PMI Canada’s insured loan portfolio is comprised of non-conforming loans with short-term maturities, ranging from three to seven years from the loan origination date. Approximately 60% of such loans in PMI Canada’s portfolio (approximately $31 million of risk in force as of December 31, 2009) will mature in the second half of 2010. As a result of the contraction in the availability of mortgage products for non-prime borrowers in Canada, the borrowers who obtained the short-term loans in PMI Canada’s portfolio may, when their loans become due, be unable to qualify for renewal or refinancing of such loans. If a greater than expected percentage of borrowers holding short-term loans insured by PMI Canada default in 2010, PMI Canada’s losses could significantly increase in 2010 and 2011. However, we do not expect PMI Canada’s losses to be significant to our overall results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to realize all of our deferred tax assets and may be required to record a full or partial valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2009, we had $175.6 million of net deferred tax assets. Topic 740 requires deferred tax assets to be reduced by a valuation allowance, with a corresponding charge to net income, if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. Our management reviews the need to establish a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis, based on, among others, the severity and frequency of operating or capital losses, our capacity for the carryback or carryforward of any losses, the expected occurrence of future income or loss and available tax planning alternatives. Due to our cumulative operating losses and the continuing economic downturn, we may not have sufficient taxable income to realize all of our deferred tax assets and have in the past recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. As a result, we may be required to record a full or an increase to the current partial valuation allowance against our remaining net deferred tax assets, with a corresponding charge to net income, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See MD&A—Critical Accounting Estimates—Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets for more discussion. 64 Table of Contents Our deferred tax assets could be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We have significant deferred tax assets that are generally available to offset future taxable income or income tax. In the event that we experience an “ownership change” for federal income tax purposes under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (“Section 382”), we may be restricted annually in our ability to use our tax attributes to offset future taxable income or income tax. In general, we would be deemed to have an “ownership change” under Section 382 if, immediately after any owner shift involving a 5% shareholder or any equity structure shift, the percentage of ownership by one or more 5% shareholder has increased by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of ownership of our company owned by such shareholder at any time during the three-year testing period. While the complexity of Section 382’s provisions and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly-traded stock make it difficult to determine whether an ownership change has occurred, as of December 31, 2009, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred that would restrict our ability to use our current deferred tax assets under Section 382. An ownership change could occur in the future as a result of significant trading in our stock or a significant equity offering by us, among other things. If an ownership change were to occur, our ability to use these tax credits and other tax attributes could be limited, which would have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our common stock is subject to significant price fluctuation. Stock prices in general, and the price of our common stock in particular, have experienced significant fluctuation over the past year. As recently as March 10, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was $0.30, 89.3% lower than the closing price of our common stock as of February 26, 2010. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due to general stock market conditions and change in market perception of the mortgage insurance industry, as well as a variety of other factors, including the following: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our capital and liquidity constraints; • increases in our loss experience, including as a result of domestic and international economic recessions, declining values of homes, higher unemployment rates and tightening credit market; • our ability to raise additional capital and to repay our debts; • legislative or regulatory changes that may affect the demand and pricing for private mortgage insurance; • changes in the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market, or the changes in the policies or practices of the GSEs; • changes in our capital requirements; and • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions. The fluctuation may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and will make it more difficult for us to raise equity capital and, if we are able to raise equity capital, significantly increase dilution to our existing stockholders. The NYSE’s quantitative continuing listing standards require any listed security to have an average closing price during any 30 consecutive trading days of not less than $1.00 per share and an average global market capitalization for any such period of not less than $25 million. Our common stock has traded below $1.00 as recently as May 2009. There is no assurance that our stock will trade above the $1.00 minimum price requirement or that we will satisfy the NYSE market capitalization requirements. If we do not satisfy any of NYSE’s continued listing standards, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE unless we cure the deficiency during the period provided by the NYSE. If the NYSE were to delist our common stock, it is likely that the liquidity of our common stock will be substantially reduced, which could significantly reduce our stock price. 65 Table of Contents It is unlikely we will recover our investment in FGIC. We made a significant investment in the equity securities of FGIC (through FGIC Corporation). Our investment in FGIC Corporation is accounted for under the equity method of accounting in our consolidated financial statements. The carrying value of our investment in FGIC Corporation was zero as of December 31, 2008. FGIC has ceased writing new business in the financial guaranty industry, and we do not expect FGIC to resume writing new business in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 