ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations declines or if the number of mortgage loans originated and purchased by the GSEs continues to decline, the amount of insurance that PMI writes could decrease, which could result in a decrease of our future revenue. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations could reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and consequently, our revenues. The volume of low down payment mortgage originations is affected by, among other factors: the level of home mortgage interest rates; domestic economy and regional economic conditions; consumer confidence; housing affordability; the rate of household formation; the rate of home price appreciation, which in times of heavy refinancing affects whether refinance loans have loan-to-value ratios that require private mortgage insurance; and government housing policy. The GSEs are principal beneficiaries of PMI’s flow mortgage insurance policies and the decline in the number of low down payment mortgage loans originated and purchased by the GSEs has adversely affected our revenues from this channel. The GSEs lost market share in 2005 and 2006 due in part to higher percentages of less-than-A loans, adjustable rate mortgages, which we refer to as ARMs, and reduced documentation loans originated in 2005 and 2006. Such loans are generally either retained by loan originators and not sold to the GSEs or are placed in mortgage-backed securities that are privately issued and not guaranteed by the GSEs. If interest rates decline, home values increase or mortgage insurance cancellation requirements change, the length of time that PMI’s policies remain in force and our revenues could decline. A significant percentage of the premiums PMI earns each year is generated from insurance policies written in previous years. As a result, a decrease in the length of time that PMI’s policies remain in force could cause our revenues to decline. Factors that lead to borrowers canceling their mortgage insurance include: current mortgage interest rates falling below the rates on the mortgages underlying insurance in force, which frequently results in borrowers refinancing their mortgages; appreciation in the values of the homes underlying the mortgages we insure; and the availability of alternative loan products, which provide borrowers with the opportunity to at least temporarily decrease their monthly loan payments. If mortgage lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance, such as piggyback loans, the amount of insurance that we write could decline, which could reduce our revenues and profits. In the U.S., mortgage lenders have been increasingly structuring mortgage originations to avoid private mortgage insurance, primarily through the use of simultaneous seconds, piggybacks, 80/10/10s, 80/15/5s or 80/20 loans. Such mortgages are structured to include a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a second mortgage with a loan-to-value ratio ranging from 5% to 20%. Over the past several years, the volume of 41 Table of Contents these loans, or variations thereof, as alternatives to loans requiring mortgage insurance has increased significantly and may continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Other alternatives to private mortgage insurance include: • government mortgage insurance programs, including those of the FHA and the VA; • member institutions providing credit enhancement on loans sold to a FHLB; • lenders and investors holding mortgages in their portfolios and self-insuring; • mortgage lenders maintaining lender recourse or participation with respect to loans sold to the GSEs; and • investors using internal credit enhancements, such as credit default or interest rate swaps, over collateralization and subordination, as partial or complete substitutes to private mortgage insurance in mortgage backed securitizations. These alternatives, or new alternatives to private mortgage insurance that may develop, could reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Although the FHLBs are not required to purchase insurance for mortgage loans, they currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan-to-value ratio above 80%. If the FHLBs were to purchase uninsured mortgage loans or increase the loan-to-value ratio threshold above which they require mortgage insurance, the market for mortgage insurance could decrease and we could be adversely affected. The risk-based capital rule applicable to the GSEs may allow large financial entities such as banks, financial guarantors, insurance companies, and brokerage firms to provide or arrange for products that may efficiently substitute for some of the capital relief provided to the GSEs by private mortgage insurance. Our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if the GSEs were to use these products in lieu of mortgage insurance. We reinsure a portion of our mortgage insurance default risk with lender-affiliated captive reinsurance companies, which reduces our net premiums written and earned. Mortgage insurers including PMI offer products to lenders that are designed to allow them to participate in the risks and rewards of the mortgage insurance business. Many of the major mortgage lenders have established affiliated captive reinsurance companies. These captive reinsurance companies assume a portion of the risks associated with the lender’s insured mortgage loans in exchange for a percentage of the associated gross premiums. An increasing percentage of PMI’s primary flow insurance in force has been generated by customers with captive reinsurance companies. Because a number of our major customers have made the business decision to participate in the mortgage insurance business by establishing reinsurance companies, we believe that if we did not offer captive reinsurance agreements, our competitive position would suffer. Captive reinsurance agreements negatively impact our net premiums written and earned. Economic factors have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect PMI’s loss experience. PMI’s loss experience has increased over the past year and could continue to increase in the year(s) to come as a result of: national or regional economic recessions and downturns; declining values of homes; higher unemployment rates; higher levels of consumer credit; deteriorating borrower credit; interest rate volatility; war or terrorist activity; adverse weather events; or other economic factors. PMI’s loss experience may increase as its policies continue to age. We expect the majority of losses and LAE on insured loans in PMI’s current portfolio to occur during the second through the fourth years after loan origination. Primary insurance written from the period of January 1, 42 Table of Contents 2003 through December 31, 2005 represented 57.7% of PMI’s primary risk in force as of December 31, 2006. Accordingly, a majority of the primary portfolio is in, or approaching, its peak claim years. We believe our loss experience could increase as these policies age. If the claim frequency on PMI’s risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting premium rates, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Since we generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance policies or adjust renewal premiums, unanticipated claims could cause our financial performance to suffer. We generally cannot cancel the mortgage insurance coverage that it provides or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy. As a result, the impact of unanticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums we charge may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated claims could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Geographic concentration of PMI’s primary insurance in force could increase claims and losses and harm our financial performance. We could be affected by economic downturns, natural disasters and other events in specific regions of the United States where a large portion of our U.S. business is concentrated. As of December 31, 2006, 10.7% of PMI’s primary risk in force was located in Florida, 7.4% was located in Texas and 7.0% was located in California. In addition, refinancing of mortgage loans can have the effect of concentrating our insurance in force in economically weaker areas of the U.S. As of December 31, 2006, 13.2% of U.S. policies in force related to loans located in Michigan, Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio. Collectively these states experienced higher default rates in 2006 than other regions of the U.S. The premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on high LTV loans, ARMs, less-than-A quality loans, Alt-A loans, interest only loans, and payment option ARMs, and the associated investment income, may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. PMI’s primary new insurance written and risk in force includes: • Loans with LTVs exceeding 97%, known as high LTV loans. At December 31, 2006, 18% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of high LTV loans, compared to 14% at December 31, 2005. • ARMs. At December 31, 2006, 19% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of ARMs, compared to 20% at 2005 year end. • Alt-A loans. At December 31, 2006, 20% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of Alt-A loans, compared to 17% at 2005 year end. • Interest only loans. At December 31, 2006, we estimate that approximately 10% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of interest only loans, compared to 6% at 2005 year end. • Payment option ARMs. At December 31, 2006, we estimate that approximately 5% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of payment option ARMs, compared to 3% at 2005 year end. • Less-than-A quality mortgage loans. At December 31, 2006, 8% of PMI’s primary risk in force consisted of less-than-A quality loans, compared to 9% at 2005 year end. We expect higher default and claim rates for high LTV loans, ARMs, Alt-A loans, interest only loans, payment option ARMs, and less-than-A quality loans. Although we attempt to incorporate these higher default and claim rates into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. 43 Table of Contents Our loss reserves may be insufficient to cover claims paid and loss-related expenses incurred. We establish loss reserves to recognize the liability for unpaid losses related to insurance in force on mortgages that are in default. These loss reserves are regularly reviewed and are based upon our estimates of the claim rate and average claim amounts, as well as the estimated costs, including legal and other fees, of settling claims. Any adjustments, which may be material, resulting from these reviews are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. Our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if our reserve estimates are insufficient to cover the actual related claims paid and loss-related expenses incurred. We delegate underwriting authority to mortgage lenders which could cause us to insure mortgage loans that do not conform to our underwriting guidelines, and thereby increase claims and losses. A significant percentage of PMI’s new insurance written is underwritten pursuant to a delegated underwriting program under which, subject to routine audit, certain mortgage lenders may determine whether mortgage loans meet our program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. We may expand the availability of delegated underwriting to additional customers. If an approved lender commits us to insure a mortgage loan, we generally may not refuse, except in limited circumstances, to insure, or rescind coverage on, that loan even if we reevaluate that loan’s risk profile and determine the risk profile to be unacceptable or the lender fails to follow our delegated underwriting guidelines. If we fail to properly underwrite mortgage loans when we provide contract underwriting services, we may be required to provide monetary and other remedies to the customer. We provide contract underwriting services for a fee. As a part of the contract underwriting services, we provide monetary and other remedies to customers in the event that we fail to properly underwrite a mortgage loan. As a result, we assume credit and, to a lesser extent, interest rate risk in connection with our contract underwriting services. Generally, the remedies provided are in addition to those contained in PMI’s master policies. Contract underwriting services apply to a significant percentage of PMI’s insurance in force and the costs relating to the investigation and/or provision of remedies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Worsening economic conditions or other factors that could increase default rates could also cause the number and severity of remedies to increase. Our revenues and profits could decline if PMI loses market share as a result of industry competition or if our competitive position suffers as a result of our inability to introduce and successfully market new products and programs. The principal sources of PMI’s competition include: other private mortgage insurers, one of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a well-capitalized, diversified public company with direct or indirect capital reserves that provide it with potentially greater resources than we have, as well as the various alternatives to private mortgage insurance discussed above. See also, “If mortgage lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance, such as piggyback loans, the amount of insurance that we write could decline, which could reduce our revenues and profit,” above. With respect to our structured finance channel, PMI competes with other external credit enhancers, primarily other private mortgage insurers and financial guarantors, as well as with capital markets participants, including aggregators and loan originators, who are continually devising new forms of structures in which to securitize mortgage loans without external credit enhancement, including private mortgage insurance. To successfully compete in the structured finance arena, we must introduce competitive new products and programs and maintain competitive pricing. If we are unable to successfully compete with other private mortgage insurers, other external credit enhancers and the various other private mortgage insurance alternatives, or if we experience delays in introducing competitive new products and programs or if these products or programs are less profitable than our existing products and programs, our business will suffer. 44 Table of Contents Changes to the risk-based capital rule issued by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight could cause PMI’s business to suffer. The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, the agency which currently regulates the GSEs, or OFHEO, has issued a risk-based capital rule that proscribes treatment of credit enhancements issued by private mortgage insurers and provides capital guidelines for the GSEs in connection with their use of other types of credit protection counterparties in addition to mortgage insurers. OFHEO has the authority to make changes to the risk-based capital rule. If changes to the rule resulted in the GSEs increasing their use of either “AAA” rated mortgage insurers, if any, instead of “AA” rated entities or credit protection counterparties other than mortgage insurers, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legislation and regulatory changes, including changes impacting the GSEs, could significantly affect PMI’s business and could reduce demand for private mortgage insurance. Mortgage origination transactions are subject to compliance with various federal and state consumer protection laws, including RESPA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, FCRA, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and others. Among other things, these laws prohibit payments for referrals of settlement service business, require fairness and non-discrimination in granting or facilitating the granting of credit, require cancellation of insurance and refunding of unearned premiums under certain circumstances, govern the circumstances under which companies may obtain and use consumer credit information, and define the manner in which companies may pursue collection activities. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect the operations and profitability of our mortgage insurance business. Congress may approve proposed legislation this year that would overhaul the GSEs’ existing regulatory structure. The legislation, as currently proposed, encompasses substantially all of the GSEs’ operations, including their affordable housing initiatives, the GSEs’ products and marketing activities, the GSEs’ loan limits, the GSEs’ minimum capital standards, and their risk-based capital requirements. Congress may choose to draft legislation in such a way that might limit the growth of the GSEs, which could result in a reduction in the size of the mortgage insurance market. It could also provide the GSEs with alternatives to the use of mortgage insurance. We do not know what form, if any, the legislation will take, or when it will be enacted. Congress may also consider legislation to modernize the FHA program this year. Legislation to reform the FHA may include an increase in the FHA’s base maximum loan limits, enhanced product innovation and a provision allowing FHA to use risk-based pricing when setting its mortgage insurance premiums. Depending upon the final details, these features have the potential to make the FHA program more competitive, which could result in reduced demand for private mortgage insurance. We do not know what form such legislation will take, if any, or, if it is enacted, its impact, if any, on our financial condition and results of operations. In July 2002, HUD proposed a rule under RESPA that, if implemented as proposed, would have, among other things, given lenders and other packagers the option of offering a Guaranteed Mortgage Package, or GMP, or providing a good faith estimate of settlement costs subject to a 10% tolerance level. The proposed rule provided that qualifying packages were entitled to a “safe harbor” from litigation under RESPA’s anti-kickback rules. Mortgage insurance would have been included in the package to the extent an upfront premium is charged. Inclusion in the package could have caused mortgage insurers to experience reductions in the prices of their services or products. HUD withdrew that proposed rule in March 2004. In late 2004, HUD announced that it will submit a new proposed rule under RESPA to the Office of Management and Budget for review. HUD has taken no further action to date but senior officials have stated publicly that they continue to work on a new proposed rule. We do not know what form, if any, the rule will take or whether it will be approved. In December 2006, Congress passed and the President signed into law The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, which includes a provision that treats certain premiums paid or accrued for mortgage insurance in connection with mortgage insurance contracts issued after December 31, 2006 as qualified residence interest and, thus, tax deductible. The amount allowable as a deduction under the provision is phased out ratably by 10% for 45 Table of Contents each $1,000 by which the taxpayer’s adjusted gross income exceeds $100,000. The provision terminates for any amount paid or accrued after December 31, 2007. Congress may consider proposed legislation that would extend the deduction to tax years beyond 2007. If the provision is not extended, any positive impact from the legislation will cease. We could lose premium revenue if the GSEs reduce the level of private mortgage insurance coverage required for low down payment mortgages or reduce their need for mortgage insurance. The GSEs are the beneficiaries on a significant portion of the insurance policies we issue as a result of their purchases, statutorily required or otherwise, of qualifying mortgage loans from lenders or investors. The GSEs offer programs that require less mortgage insurance coverage on mortgages approved by their automated underwriting systems. They also have reduced coverage requirements for certain expanding market products. If mortgage insurance is no longer required to be placed on high LTV loans purchased by the GSEs, or if the reduction in required levels of mortgage insurance becomes widely accepted by mortgage lenders, or if the GSEs further reduce mortgage insurance coverage requirements for loans they purchase, PMI’s premium revenue would decline and our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Products introduced by the GSEs, if widely accepted, could harm our profitability. The GSEs have products for which they will, upon receipt from lenders of loans with primary insurance, restructure the mortgage insurance coverage by reducing the amount of primary insurance coverage and adding a second layer of insurance coverage, usually in the form of pool insurance. Under these programs, the GSEs may provide services to the mortgage insurer and the mortgage insurer may be required to pay fees to the GSEs for the benefits provided through the reduced insurance coverage or the services provided. If they become widely accepted, these products could harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. The GSEs have issued eligibility requirements for qualified mortgage insurers, including PMI. Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements apply only to borrower paid and lender paid mortgage insurance. The GSEs’ eligibility requirements cover substantially all areas of PMI’s mortgage insurance operations, require the disclosure of certain activities and new products, give the GSEs the right to purchase mortgage insurance from other than existing approved mortgage insurers, including insurers that are either rated below “AA” or are unrated, and provide the GSEs with rights to revise the eligibility standards of insurers. The exercise of rights under the eligibility requirements, future changes to the requirements, or the purchase directly by Fannie Mae of mortgage insurance from insurers not subject to its eligibility requirements could reduce our operational flexibility and cause our profitability to suffer. Our business and financial performance could suffer if PMI were to lose the business of a major customer. Through their various origination channels, PMI’s top ten customers accounted for 43.9% of its premiums earned in 2006. A single customer represented 11.8% of its earned premiums in 2006. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, may acquire significant percentages of their business through negotiated, structured finance transactions with a limited number of customers. The loss of a significant customer could reduce our revenue, and if not replaced, harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to litigation risk. The mortgage insurance industry and PMI face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Consumers are bringing a growing number of lawsuits against home mortgage lenders and settlement service providers. In recent years, mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation alleging violations of RESPA and FCRA. 46 Table of Contents In the past, a number of lawsuits have been filed against private mortgage insurers, including PMI, alleging that the mortgage insurers violated FCRA by failing to send adverse action notices to borrowers who were required to pay for private mortgage insurance written by the mortgage insurer at rates greater than the mortgage insurers’ “best available rate.” In September 2005, such an action was filed against us in the federal district court for the Northern District of California entitled Hogan, et al. v. PMI Mortgage Insurance Company. In the action, the plaintiffs sought certification of a nationwide class of consumers and sought, among other relief, actual and statutory damages and declaratory and injunctive relief. On January 4, 2006, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in the action, which adds additional claims under state law and FCRA, alleging that PMI did not have a permissible purpose to access the plaintiffs’ credit information. PMI has entered into a class action settlement agreement with the plaintiffs’ counsel, which was preliminarily approved by the court on December 22, 2006. A hearing on final approval of the settlement is set for April 4, 2007. In the future, we cannot predict whether other actions might be brought against us or other mortgage insurers. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In the past, a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers, including PMI, under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have provided products or services at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. RESPA precludes PMI from providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, in exchange for the referral of settlement services. We are aware of three putative class action lawsuits filed against mortgage lenders in federal district courts in California in December 2006, alleging RESPA violations in connection with payments received from mortgage insurers under reinsurance agreements with reinsurers affiliated with such mortgage lenders. We cannot predict whether we will be added to those lawsuits or whether other civil, regulatory or criminal actions might be brought against us or other mortgage insurers asserting claims similar to those contained in the putative class actions. The outcome of such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to regulatory risk and have been subject to recent scrutiny relating to the use of captive reinsurance arrangements and other products and services. PMI and the mortgage insurance industry are also subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation by state insurance departments. Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad powers to supervisory agencies and officials to examine and investigate insurance companies and to enforce rules or exercise discretion touching almost every aspect of PMI’s business. Recently, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities concerning certain practices, including captive reinsurance arrangements. Increased federal or state regulatory scrutiny could lead to new legal precedents, new regulations or new practices, or regulatory actions or investigations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In 2005, we responded to a request from the New York Insurance Department, or the NYID, for information regarding captive reinsurance arrangements. In February 2006, the NYID requested additional information regarding captive reinsurance arrangements, including the business purpose of those arrangements. The NYID also requested that we review the mortgage insurance premium rates currently in use in New York based upon recent years’ experience. We have responded to the NYID’s February 2006 letter. In January 2006, we and certain other mortgage insurers received administrative subpoenas for information from the Minnesota Department of Commerce primarily regarding captive reinsurance arrangements. We have provided the Minnesota Department of Commerce with information about such arrangements and other products and services pursuant to this subpoena. Other federal and state regulatory agencies, including state insurance departments, attorneys general or other regulators may also request information regarding captive reinsurance arrangements or other of our products and services. We cannot predict whether the NYID’s requests or the Minnesota Department of Commerce’s administrative subpoena will lead to further inquiries, or investigations, 47 Table of Contents of these matters, or the scope, timing or outcome of any inquiry or actions by those Departments or any inquiry or actions that may be commenced by state insurance departments, attorneys general or other regulators. A downgrade of PMI Mortgage Insurance Co.’s insurer financial strength ratings could materially harm our financial performance. Our principal licensed U.S. mortgage insurance company, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co., or MIC, is rated “AA” by S&P, “AA+” by Fitch, and “Aa2” by Moody’s. These ratings may be revised or withdrawn at any time by one or more of the rating agencies and are based on factors relevant to MIC’s policyholders and are not applicable to our common stock or debt. The rating agencies could lower or withdraw our ratings or outlooks at any time as a result of a number of factors, including: underwriting or investment losses; the necessity to make capital contributions to our subsidiaries pursuant to capital support agreements; other developments negatively affecting MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio, financial condition or results of operations; or changes in the views or modeling of rating agencies of our risk profile or of the mortgage insurance industry. If MIC’s insurer financial strength rating for two out of the following three rating agencies falls below “AA-” from S&P or Fitch, or “Aa3” from Moody’s, investors, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, may not purchase mortgages insured by MIC. Such a downgrade from any of the rating agencies could also negatively affect our ability to compete in the capital markets, our holding company ratings, the ratings of our other wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries, or the ratings of FGIC or CMG MI. Any of these events would harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our ongoing ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and meet our obligations primarily depends upon the receipt of dividends and returns of capital from our insurance subsidiaries. We are a holding company and conduct all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Our principal sources of funds are dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and funds that may be raised from time to time in the capital markets. Factors that may affect our ability to maintain and meet our capital and liquidity needs as well as to pay dividends to our shareholders include: the level and severity of claims experienced by our insurance subsidiaries; the performance of the financial markets; standards and factors used by various credit rating agencies; financial covenants in our credit agreements; and standards imposed by state insurance regulators relating to the payment of dividends by insurance companies. In addition, a protracted economic downturn, or other factors, could cause issuers of the fixed-income securities that we, FGIC Corporation, FGIC and RAM Re own to default on principal and interest payments, which could cause our investment returns and net income to decline and reduce our ability to satisfy all of our capital and liquidity needs. We record federal income tax expense relating to our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders at a rate of 7% based on our assessment that we will ultimately receive those earnings in the form of dividends from FGIC Corporation. That assessment could change due to a number of factors, some of which may be outside our control. If that assessment were to change, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We account for our investment in FGIC Corporation using the equity method of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. In accordance with GAAP, we have recorded, and currently continue to record, federal income tax expense relating to our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders at a tax rate of 7%. The use of the 7% tax rate is based on our assessment, initially made in 2003 at the time of our initial investment in FGIC Corporation, that we would ultimately receive our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders in the form of dividends rather than through a sale of our equity investment in FGIC Corporation. This tax rate is employed based on our assessment that we will receive a dividends received deduction for federal income tax 48 Table of Contents purposes on our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders. This assessment was based upon, among other things, the terms of the stockholders agreement between us and the other investors in FGIC Corporation and FGIC Corporation’s capital structure in place immediately after our investment. However, if the facts and circumstances were to change in the future in a manner that would cause our management to change its assessment as to the likelihood of receiving our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders through the receipt of dividends, we would be required to change the manner in which we record the related income tax expense. For example, management’s assessment could change if FGIC Corporation were to become subject to sufficiently lengthy and severe limitations on its ability to pay dividends, whether as a result of restrictions imposed by contract, the terms of securities it may issue, rating agency or legal requirements or otherwise. If management’s assessment were to change, we would apply a federal income tax rate of approximately 35% to our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders in subsequent periods. We would also be required to establish a higher deferred tax liability to account for the difference between the 7% tax rate we have used to account for our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders since our investment in FGIC Corporation in 2003 and the 35% tax rate that would apply to gain recognized on a sale of our interest in FGIC Corporation. Accordingly, in those circumstances, we would recognize an immediate expense relating to deferred federal income tax liability in the quarter in which we establish such an increased deferred tax liability in an amount equal to approximately 28% of the cumulative amount of our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders recorded as of the date we determine to effect such a change. As of December 31, 2006, the cumulative amount of our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders subject to the 7% tax rate was approximately $230.7 million. Therefore, a change in the federal income tax rate applicable to our proportionate share of net income available to FGIC Corporation common stockholders as of December 31, 2006 would have required us to recognize a federal expense of approximately $64.6 million and an additional state expense of approximately $13.3 million as of December 31, 2006. The amount of such a potential expense will increase in subsequent periods to the extent that FGIC Corporation continues to generate net income. If we are unable to keep pace with the technological demands of our customers or with the technology-related products and services offered by our competitors, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Participants in the mortgage lending and mortgage insurance industries rely on e-commerce and other technology to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide our products and services electronically via the Internet or electronic data transmission, and the percentage of our new insurance written and claims processing which is delivered electronically has increased. We expect this trend to continue, and accordingly, we believe that it is essential that we continue to invest substantial resources in maintaining electronic connectivity with our customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technology. Our business may suffer if we do not keep pace with the technological demands of our customers and the technological capabilities of our competitors. The implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord may limit the domestic and international use of mortgage insurance. The Basel II Capital Accord, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s proposal to implement a new international capital accord, will affect the capital treatment provided to mortgage insurance by domestic and international banks in both their origination and securitization activities. Accordingly, the Basel II provisions related to residential mortgages and mortgage insurance could alter the competitive positions and financial performance of mortgage insurers as well as the capital available to our bank customers for their mortgage origination and securitization activities. 49 Table of Contents PMI’s opportunities to participate in structured transactions, and U.S. financial institutions preferences with respect to mortgage insurance, may be significantly impacted by the implementation in the United States of Basel II and any interim capital accord. U.S. federal banking agencies have jointly announced that the U.S. implementation of Basel II will be delayed until at least 2008, and perhaps 2009, and proposed an additional capital accord (known as Basel IA) that has not been finalized. U.S. implementation of Basel II standards for credit risk exposures, including residential mortgages, is focused on application of the Advanced Internal Rating Based (A-IRB) approach by large internationally active banking organizations. U.S. bank supervisors have indicated their intent to recognize the loss mitigating impacts of private mortgage insurance policies for banking organizations computing minimum capital requirements under the A-IRB approach, as well as under Basel IA. The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, or APRA, the primary regulator of our Australian mortgage insurance operations, intends to implement Basel II capital requirements for financial institutions effective January 1, 2008. APRA is currently considering public comments that have been submitted on a discussion paper regarding implementation of Basel II. Such implementation may have a significant impact on the future market acceptance of mortgage insurance in Australia. APRA’s Basel II proposals, if adopted as proposed, could reduce the available market for mortgage insurance among our Australian mortgage insurance operation’s bank customers. It is not known at this time whether APRA will revise its Basel II proposals in response to comments received. Currently, European banking supervisors are in the process of deciding how mortgage insurance will be recognized as a risk mitigant for bank capital requirements. In 2005, the European Union adopted new legislation, the Capital Requirements Directive, or CRD, which provides a revised framework for EU member states’ banking supervisors to implement new Basel II risk based capital guidelines starting in 2007. The CRD prescribes standard criteria for credit risk mitigation instruments that are eligible to provide banks with risk-based capital relief. Currently, under the transposition of the CRD into national laws, several EU member states have recognized mortgage insurance as a credit risk mitigant. We believe the CRD facilitates recognition of mortgage insurance benefits for European banks under certain circumstances. The implementation of the CRD into the regulatory framework of EU member states is subject to further clarification by the European Commission. Our consolidated results of operations and cash flows could suffer if demand for our mortgage insurance products is diminished as a result of the implementation of the Basel II and Basel IA proposals. Our international insurance subsidiaries subject us to numerous risks associated with international operations. We have operations in Australia, New Zealand, Europe, and Hong Kong. We expect to begin operations in Canada in 2007. We have committed and may in the future commit additional significant resources to expand our international operations. Accordingly, in addition to the general economic and insurance business-related factors discussed above, we are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities. These risks include: the need for regulatory and third-party approvals; challenges in attracting and retaining key foreign-based employees, customers and business partners in international markets; economic downturns in targeted foreign mortgage origination markets; interest rate volatility in a variety of countries; unexpected changes in foreign regulations and laws; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; potential increases in the level of defaults and claims on policies insured by foreign-based subsidiaries; and the need to successfully develop and market products appropriate to the foreign market, including the development and marketing of credit enhancement products to European lenders and for mortgage securitizations. We do not currently hedge foreign currency exposures of net investments in our foreign operations. If the spot exchange rates of the U.S. dollar relative to other applicable foreign currencies change, our net investment in 50 Table of Contents our foreign operations will be impacted. Foreign currency translation gains in accumulated other comprehensive income were $172.4 million as of December 31, 2006, due primarily to the strengthening of the spot exchange rates of the Australia dollar and the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar. This cumulative foreign currency translation gain benefits PMI’s statutory surplus as PMI Australia and PMI Europe are its wholly-owned subsidiaries. A weakening of the spot exchange rates of currencies in countries where we operate relative to the U.S. dollar will negatively affect our foreign operations’ net investment, PMI’s statutory surplus and, consequently, PMI’s potential ability to pay dividends to its parent. PMI Australia is subject to many of the same risks facing PMI. Like PMI, the financial results of our Australian and New Zealand mortgage insurance operations, or PMI Australia, are affected by domestic and regional economic conditions, including movements in interest and unemployment rates and property value fluctuations. These economic factors could impact PMI Australia’s loss experience or the demand for mortgage insurance in the markets PMI Australia serves. PMI Australia is also subject to significant regulation. PMI Australia’s primary regulator, APRA, has issued regulations or sought comment on proposals to, among other things, increase the capital requirements for lenders mortgage insurance companies, change the requirements for acceptable lenders mortgage insurers and increase compliance and governance requirements for general insurers including lenders mortgage insurers. In addition to these regulations and proposals, PMI Australia will face new competition in the future. Such competition may take a number of forms including domestic and off-shore lenders mortgage insurers, reinsurers of residential mortgage credit risk, increased risk appetite from lender owned captive insurers, and non insurance forms of credit risk transfer. New market competitors have the potential to impact PMI Australia’s market share and to impact pricing of credit risk in the market as a whole. PMI Australia had revenues of $202.0 million in 2006, representing 16.8% of our consolidated revenues. PMI Australia’s five largest customers provided 57.6% of PMI Australia’s gross premiums written in 2006. In 2006, one of PMI Australia’s largest customers restructured its captive arrangements and this restructuring will negatively impact PMI Australia’s premiums written associated with this customer. Future losses of significant customers’ business, if not replaced, could harm PMI Australia’s results of operations. PMI Australia’s claims and loss ratio increased in 2006 and will likely be higher for the full year 2007. A significant portion of PMI Australia’s risk in force is concentrated in the populous state of New South Wales, where default rates were highest in 2006. A significant increase in PMI Australia’s claims could harm our financial condition and results of operations. PMI Australia is currently rated “AA” by S&P and Fitch and “Aa2” by Moody’s. These ratings are based in part upon a capital support agreement between MIC and PMI Australia and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Termination or amendment of this support structure could negatively impact PMI Australia’s ratings. PMI Australia’s business is dependent on maintaining its ratings. Any negative impact on its ratings will negatively affect its financial results. We may not be able to execute our strategy to expand our European operations. The success of our efforts to expand our European operations will depend partly upon legislative and regulatory policies in Europe that support homeownership and provide capital relief for institutions that obtain credit enhancement with respect to their mortgage loan portfolios. If European legislative and regulatory agencies do not adopt such policies, our European operations may be adversely affected. See, “The implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord may limit the domestic and international use of mortgage insurance,” above. PMI Europe is also likely to face increased competition from other mortgage insurers and third party credit enhancement providers in 2007. PMI Europe had revenues of $33.9 million in 2006, representing 2.8% of our consolidated revenues. PMI Europe is currently rated “AA” by S&P and Fitch and “Aa3” by Moody’s. These ratings are based in part upon a 51 Table of Contents capital support agreement between MIC and PMI Europe and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Termination or amendment of this support structure could negatively impact PMI Europe’s ratings. PMI Europe’s business is dependent on maintaining its ratings. Any negative impact on its ratings will negatively affect its financial results. We may not be able to execute our strategy to develop our Canadian operations. We have devoted resources to develop our Canadian operations, PMI Canada, and we plan to continue these efforts. The success of our efforts will depend upon, among other factors, our ability to obtain a license to write mortgage insurance from the Canadian Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions as well as a government guarantee from the Canadian Ministry of Finance. We have applied for the license and the guarantee and expect to receive both in the first half of 2007 but there can be no assurance that this will, in fact, occur. In addition, prior to offering mortgage insurance in Canada, PMI Canada intends to seek and acquire a financial strength rating from the DBRS, the principal rating agency in Canada. Our ability to execute our Canadian strategy would be significantly impeded in the event we are unable to obtain a satisfactory rating for our Canadian subsidiary. Competition in the Canadian mortgage insurance market is intense. Such competition may take a number of forms, including domestic mortgage insurers, substitute products or self insurance for unregulated lenders. A number of internationally-active mortgage insurers are entering or have stated their intent to enter the Canadian market. Regulations in Canada currently require the use of mortgage insurance for all mortgage loans extended by banks and trust companies with LTVs greater than 75%. The Canadian Parliament is considering legislation to change the requirement for mortgage insurance to apply only to loans with LTVs greater than 80%. A change in the statutory requirement for mortgage insurance could result in a reduction in the size of the Canadian mortgage insurance market. We have recently expanded our operations with PMI Guaranty, which will subject us to new risks and uncertainties. PMI Guaranty began operations during the fourth quarter of 2006. As a start-up corporation, PMI Guaranty may be unable to execute its business strategy and gain a foothold in the markets that it has targeted. If PMI Guaranty is unable to execute its business strategy or unanticipated issues arise in its implementation, PMI Guaranty’s financial results could be materially and adversely affected. As a provider of financial guaranty type credit enhancement products, PMI Guaranty is subject to various risks and uncertainties associated with those areas. For example, PMI Guaranty will have exposures in the public finance arena to particular infrastructure sectors and certain geographic areas. An adverse event or series of events with respect to one or more of these sectors or areas that is more severe than the assumptions used by PMI Guaranty at the time of underwriting could result in disproportionate and significant losses to PMI Guaranty. In addition, PMI Guaranty’s financial results will be dependent on the market for financial guaranty insurance. Credit spreads, the difference in interest cost for bond issuers under different credit rating scenarios, are a significant factor in an issuer’s determination of whether to seek credit enhancement. As credit spreads tighten, the likelihood that issuers will choose to issue bonds without credit enhancement increases. Tightening of credit spreads may therefore negatively impact demand for the products offered by PMI Guaranty. PMI Guaranty is subject to significant competition in both its financial guaranty insurance and financial guaranty reinsurance endeavors. In addition to other AA-rated financial guaranty insurers and financial guaranty reinsurers, PMI Guaranty competes with alternative risk and capital market participants such as hedge funds. Further, new market competitors have the potential to impact PMI Guaranty’s market share and to impact the pricing of financial guaranty insurance and financial guaranty reinsurance products. We cannot be sure that PMI Guaranty will be able to compete effectively in its current markets or in any markets or asset classes into which it expands. 52 Table of Contents PMI Guaranty’s financial strength is currently rated AA+ by Fitch Ratings, AA by Standard & Poor’s and Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service. These ratings are based in part upon a capital support agreement between PMI Guaranty and MIC and a guarantee of that agreement by The PMI Group. Termination or amendment of this support structure could negatively impact PMI Guaranty’s ratings. PMI Guaranty’s ability to compete or otherwise engage in the financial guaranty insurance and financial guaranty reinsurance business would be materially and adversely affected by any reduction in PMI Guaranty’s ratings or the announcement of a potential reduction or change in outlook. The performance of our financial guaranty equity investees could harm our consolidated financial results. We have made significant investments in the equity securities of several companies, including FGIC (through FGIC Corporation) and RAM Re (through RAM Holdings Ltd.). Our investments in FGIC Corporation and RAM Re are accounted for on the equity method of accounting in our consolidated financial statements. The nature of the businesses conducted by these companies differs significantly from our core business of providing residential mortgage insurance. These companies are subject to a number of significant risks that arise from the nature of their businesses. Some of the various risks affecting FGIC are discussed below. Because we do not control these companies, we are dependent upon the management of these companies to independently operate their businesses and report their financial results, and, accordingly, we may be unable to take actions unilaterally to avoid or mitigate those risks. In addition, any prospective or retroactive change in their financial reporting could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Such changes could occur as a result of, among other things, changes in accounting principles or comments made by regulatory agencies, including the SEC in connection with its ordinary course review of filings made with it. As a significant portion of our consolidated net income is derived from FGIC and its financial guaranty business, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties associated with the financial guaranty business. A significant portion of our consolidated net income is derived from FGIC and its financial guaranty business. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with that business. In addition, FGIC has historically operated its financial guaranty business principally in limited portions of the public finance and structured finance markets. FGIC has expanded its business lines and products into markets and asset classes that historically have experienced higher default rates than those in which it has historically operated. The risks and uncertainties to which we may be exposed as a result of the FGIC Corporation investment include the following, among others: • FGIC’s ability to attract new business and to compete with other large, triple-A rated financial guarantors is largely dependent on the triple-A financial strength ratings assigned to it by the major rating agencies. FGIC’s current ratings may be lowered or withdrawn at any time by one or more of the rating agencies. FGIC’s ability to compete or otherwise engage in its business as currently conducted, and FGIC’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected by any reduction in FGIC’s ratings or the announcement of a potential reduction or change in outlook. • Prior to 2005, FGIC operated its financial guaranty business principally in the public finance market and, to a limited extent, the structured finance market in the United States. In 2005 and 2006, FGIC continued its expansion into new markets, both domestically and internationally. Unanticipated issues may arise in the implementation of FGIC’s strategy, that could impair its ability to expand its business as expected. In addition, any expansion of its business may be subject to challenges in attracting and retaining employees with relevant experience, establishing name recognition in new markets and gaining knowledge of those markets and asset classes. The execution of FGIC’s expansion plans could result in it having greater losses than those it has historically experienced. • FGIC is subject to extensive competition from other financial guaranty insurance companies, other providers of third-party credit enhancement and providers of alternative transaction structures and 53 Table of Contents executions that do not use financial guaranty insurance. We cannot be sure that FGIC will be able to continue to compete effectively in its current markets or in any markets or asset classes into which it expands. • Demand for financial guaranty insurance is constantly changing and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, regulatory changes and supply of bond issues. A general reduction in demand for financial guaranty insurance could harm FGIC’s consolidated results of operations and business prospects. • The financial guaranty business is subject to extensive regulation. Future legislative, regulatory or judicial changes affecting the financial guaranty industry or public finance or structured finance markets, including changes in tax laws, could adversely affect FGIC’s business. • FGIC’s loss reserves are necessarily based on estimates and subjective judgments about the outcome of future events. We cannot be sure that losses in FGIC’s insured portfolio will not exceed by a material amount the loss reserves previously established by FGIC or that additional significant reserves will not need to be established. • FGIC’s structured finance portfolio contains concentrations of individual issuers and servicers of obligations as well as a concentration of mortgage-related securities. FGIC also has a number of individual large exposures to single obligors in its public finance portfolio, concentration in infrastructure sectors and concentrations in certain geographic areas. An adverse event or series of events with respect to one or more of these concentrations that is more severe than the assumptions used by FGIC in its stress scenario at the time of the underwriting of the related credit could result in disproportionate and significant losses to FGIC and could harm its consolidated financial position and results of operations. • FGIC’s exposure to insuring public finance obligations relating to airports has experienced increased stress as a result of terrorism and general global unrest, including a downgrading of the ratings of some of those issuers. Other sectors currently insured by FGIC or into which FGIC may expand could also see direct increased stress as a result of terrorism and general global unrest. FGIC may incur material losses due to such exposures if the economic stress caused by such events is more severe than FGIC currently foresees or has assumed or will assume in the future in underwriting its exposures. As of December 31, 2006, 7.3 % of our U.S. investment portfolio consists of FGIC-insured non-refunded bonds. As a result of our investment in FGIC, we have amended our investment policy to provide that no more than 15% of our U.S. investment portfolio consists of FGIC-insured non-refunded bonds. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in connection with the sale of equity interest in SPS Holding Corp., or SPS. In October 2005, we sold our interest in SPS to Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc., or CSFB. Under the terms of the transaction, we agreed to indemnify CSFB for certain liabilities relating to SPS’s operations, including litigation and regulatory actions. Our maximum indemnification obligation for SPS’s operations will not exceed approximately $21 million. Our consolidated financial position and results of operations could be harmed if we are required to indemnify CSFB for claims or liabilities relating to SPS’s operations up to the date of closing. 54 Table of Contents 