Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the specific risk factors listed below together with all other information included or incorporated in this report. Any of the following risks may materialize, and additional risks not known to us, or that we now deem immaterial, may arise. In such event, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that occurs, the market price of our common stock could fall, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our profitability is especially vulnerable to cost increases. Future increase in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage levels, shipping rates, freight costs, fuel costs and store occupancy costs may reduce our profitability. As a fixed price retailer, we cannot raise the sales price of our merchandise to offset cost increases. Unlike multi-price retailers, we are primarily dependent on our ability to operate more efficiently or effectively or increase our comparable store net sales in order to offset inflation. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to operate more efficiently or increase our comparable store net sales in the future. Please see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," beginning on page 19 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect of Inflation and Other Economic Factors on our operations. We could encounter disruptions or additional costs in receiving and distributing merchandise. Our success depends on our ability to transport merchandise from our suppliers to our distribution centers and then ship it to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not anticipate, respond to or control all of the challenges of operating our receiving and distribution systems. Some of the factors that could have an adverse effect on our shipping and receiving systems or costs are: § Shipping. Our oceanic shipping schedules may be disrupted or delayed from time to time. We also have experienced shipping rate increases over the last several years imposed by the trans-Pacific ocean carriers. § Diesel fuel costs. We have experienced increases in diesel fuel costs over the past few years and expect increases in 2008. § Vulnerability to natural or man-made disasters. A fire, explosion or natural disaster at any of our distribution facilities could result in a loss of merchandise and impair our ability to adequately stock our stores. Some of our facilities are especially vulnerable to earthquakes, hurricanes or tornadoes. § Labor disagreement. Labor disagreements or disruptions may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and increase costs. § War, terrorism and other events. War and acts of terrorism in the United States, or in China or other parts of Asia where we buy a significant amount of our imported merchandise, could disrupt our supply chain. 10 A downturn in economic conditions could adversely affect our sales. Economic conditions, such as those caused by recession, inflation, cost increases, adverse weather conditions, or terrorism, could reduce consumer spending or cause customers to shift their spending to products we either do not sell or do not sell as profitably. Adverse economic conditions could disrupt consumer spending and significantly reduce our sales. Sales below our expectations during peak seasons may cause our operating results to suffer materially. Our highest sales periods are the Christmas and Easter seasons. We generally realize a disproportionate amount of our net sales and a substantial majority of our operating and net income during the fourth quarter. In anticipation, we stock extra inventory and hire many temporary employees to supplement our stores. An economic downturn during these periods could adversely affect our operating results, particularly operating and net income, to a greater extent than if a downturn occurred at other times of the year. Untimely merchandise delays due to receiving or distribution problems could have a similar effect. Sales during the Easter selling season are materially affected by the timing of the Easter holiday. Easter in fiscal 2007 was on April 8th, while in fiscal 2008, it will be two weeks earlier on March 23rd. We believe that the earlier Easter in 2008 could potentially result in $25.0 million of lost sales when compared to the first quarter of 2007. In fiscal 2008, there is one fewer weekend between Thanksgiving and Christmas compared to fiscal 2007. We believe this could potentially reduce the total foot traffic in our stores for the Christmas holiday in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. Our sales and profits rely on imported merchandise, which may increase in cost or become unavailable. Merchandise imported directly from overseas accounts for approximately 40% to 45% of our total purchases at retail. In addition, we believe that a small portion of our goods purchased from domestic vendors is imported. China is the source of a substantial majority of our imports. Imported goods are generally less expensive than domestic goods and increase our profit margins. A disruption in the flow of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may significantly decrease our profits. Risks associated with our reliance on imported goods include: § disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as: o raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; o problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; and o economic crises and international disputes. § increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise, resulting from: o increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific ocean carriers; o changes in currency exchange rates and local economic conditions, including inflation in the country of origin; o failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China; and o import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions. We may be unable to expand our square footage as profitably as planned. We plan to expand our selling square footage by approximately 9% in 2008 to increase our sales and profits. Expanding our square footage profitably depends on a number of uncertainties, including our ability to locate, lease, build out and open or expand stores in suitable locations on a timely basis under favorable economic terms. We must also open or expand stores within our established geographic markets, where new or expanded stores may draw sales away from our existing stores. We may not manage our expansion effectively, and our failure to achieve our expansion plans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Our profitability is affected by the mix of products we sell. Our gross profit could decrease if we increase the proportion of higher cost goods we sell in the future. In recent years, the percentage of our sales from higher cost consumable products has increased and is likely to increase slightly in 2008. Our gross profit will decrease, unless we are able to maintain our current merchandise cost sufficiently to offset any decrease in our product margin percentage. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to do so. Pressure from competitors may reduce our sales and profits. The retail industry is highly competitive. The marketplace is highly fragmented as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies. We expect competition to increase in the future because there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. Many of our current or potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Please see Item 1, “Business,” beginning on page 6 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect of competition on our operations. The resolution of certain legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, accrued liabilities and cash. For a discussion of current legal matters, please see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” beginning on page 14 of this Form 10-K. Resolution of certain matters described in that item, if decided against the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, accrued liabilities or cash flows. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or discourage a takeover attempt that may be in a shareholder's best interest. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or discourage a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his best interest. These provisions, among other things: · classify our board of directors into three classes, each of which serves for different three-year periods; · provide that only the board of directors, chairman or president may call special meetings of the shareholders; · establish certain advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings; · require a vote of the holders of more than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote in order to remove a director, change the number of directors, or amend the foregoing and certain other provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws; and · permit the board of directors, without further action of the shareholders, to issue and fix the terms of preferred stock, which may have rights senior to those of the common stock. However, we believe that these provisions allow our Board of Directors to negotiate a higher price in the event of a takeover attempt which would be in the best interest of our shareholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Item 