risk factors include: • Failure to meet our goals for opening or expanding stores on a timely basis could cause our sales to suffer. We may not anticipate all the challenges that expanding our operations will impose and, as a result, we may not meet our targets for opening new stores and expanding profitably. In addition, new stores or expanded stores may cause sales at nearby stores to suffer, and we could have difficulties profitably renewing or replacing expiring leases. 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Adverse economic conditions, such as reduced spending due to lack of consumer confidence, inflation, gasoline prices or other factors, or bad weather could significantly reduce our sales. The outbreak of war and other national and international events, such as terrorism, could lead to disruptions in our supply chain or the economy. • The resolution of certain legal matters discussed in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, accrued liabilities and cash. • Our profitability is vulnerable to future increases in operating and merchandise costs including shipping rates, freight costs, fuel costs, wage levels, inflation, competition and other adverse economic factors because we sell goods at the fixed $1.00 price point. • Our merchandise mix relies heavily on imported goods. An increase in the cost of these goods, for example because of inflation in their country of origin or currency revaluations, or disruption in the flow of these goods may significantly decrease our sales and profits because any transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. In addition, products and alternative sources may also be of lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently import. • Our sales may be below expectations during the Christmas and Easter selling seasons, which may cause our operating results to suffer materially. • The performance of our distribution system is critical to our operations. Unforeseen disruptions or costs in our receiving and distribution systems could harm our sales and profitability. • Disruptions in the availability of quality, low-cost merchandise in sufficient quantities to maintain our growth may reduce sales and profits. Our forward-looking statements could be wrong in light of these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future events, developments or results described in this report could turn out to be materially different. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report and you should not expect us to do so. Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts and others, we do not, by policy, selectively disclose to them any material nonpublic information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any securities analyst regardless of the content of the statement or report. We generally do not issue financial forecasts or projections and we do not, by policy, confirm those issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. INTRODUCTORY NOTE: Unless otherwise stated, references to “we,” “our” and “Dollar Tree” generally refer to Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Unless specifically indicated otherwise, any references to “2005” or “fiscal 2005,” “2004” or “fiscal 2004,” and “2003” or “fiscal 2003” relate to as of or for the years ended January 28, 2006, January 29, 2005 and January 31, 2004, respectively. Any reference to “2002” or “fiscal 2002” relates to as of or for the year ended December 31, 2002. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements at www.dollartree.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such reports with the SEC. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Since our founding in 1986, we have become the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the fixed price of $1.00. We believe the variety and quality of products we sell for $1.00 sets us apart from our competitors. At January 29, 2005, we operated 2,735 single-price point stores under the names of Dollar Tree, Dollar Bills, Dollar Express, Only One Dollar, and Only $One. Since 1986, we have evolved from opening primarily mall-based stores ranging between 1,500 and 2,500 selling square feet to opening primarily strip shopping center-based stores averaging 10,000 to 15,000 selling square feet. In the past five years, we gradually increased the average size of our stores as we improved our merchandise offerings and service to our customers. At December 31, 1999, we operated 1,507 stores in 33 states. At January 29, 2005, we operated 2,735 stores in 48 states. Our selling square footage increased from approximately 6.1 million square feet in December 1999 to 20.4 million square feet in January 2005. Our store growth since 1999 has resulted from opening new stores and completing mergers and acquisitions. We centrally manage our store and distribution operations from our corporate headquarters in Chesapeake, Virginia. Change in Fiscal Year End In January 2003, we changed our fiscal year end to a retail fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. Business Strategy Value Merchandise Offering. We strive to exceed our customers’ expectations over the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for $1.00 by offering items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere. We buy approximately 60% of our merchandise domestically and import the remaining 40%. Our domestic purchases include closeouts. We believe our mix of imported and domestic merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently exceed the customer’s expectation. In addition, direct relationships with manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and customize packaging and product sizes and package quantities that meet our customers’ needs. Mix of Basic Variety and Seasonal Merchandise. We maintain a balanced selection of products within traditional variety store categories. We offer a wide selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday items with seasonal and closeout merchandise. We attempt to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to establish our stores as a destination. Closeout merchandise is purchased opportunistically and represents less than 10% of our purchases. National, regional and private-label brands have become a bigger part of our merchandise mix. Our merchandise mix consists of: • consumable merchandise, which includes candy and food, health and beauty care, and housewares such as paper, plastics and household chemicals; • variety merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts, party goods, greeting cards, hardware, and other items; and • seasonal goods include Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise, along with summer toys and lawn and garden merchandise. Our larger stores, which appeal to a broader demographic mix, carry more consumable merchandise than smaller stores. As a result, consumable merchandise has grown as a percentage of purchases and sales. The following table shows the percentage of purchases of each major product group for the years ended January 29, 2005 and January 31, 2004: Merchandise Type January 29, 2005 January 31, 2004 Variety categories 49.9 % 49.5 % Consumable 41.4 % 41.2 % Seasonal 8.7 % 9.3 % 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Convenient Locations and Store Size. We primarily focus on opening new stores in strip shopping centers anchored by mass merchandisers, whose target customers we believe to be similar to ours, and in neighborhood centers anchored by large grocery retailers. Our stores have proven successful in metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns. The range of our store sizes allows us to target a particular location with a store that best suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate opportunities. Our stores are attractively designed and create an inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors, decorative signs and background music. We enhance the store design with attractive merchandise displays. We believe this design attracts new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and impulse purchase store. For more information on retail locations and retail store leases, see “ Properties.” Profitable Stores with Strong Cash Flow. We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and strong cash flows. We believe that our stores have a relatively small shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores within a single market. Our ability to open new stores is dependent upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms. Our older, smaller stores continue to generate significant store-level operating income and operating cash flows and have some of the highest operating margins among our stores; however, the increased size of our newer stores allows us to offer a wider selection of products, including more basic consumable merchandise, thereby making them more attractive as a destination store. The strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure investment and new stores. Over the past five years, cash flows from operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures. For more information on our results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Results of Operations.” For more information on seasonality of sales, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations.” Cost Control. We believe that substantial buying power at the $1.00 price point contributes to our successful purchasing strategy, which includes disciplined, targeted merchandise margin goals by category. We believe our disciplined buying and quality merchandise help to minimize markdowns. We buy products on an order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost. No vendor accounted for more than 10% of total merchandise purchased in any of the past five years. During 2002, we began to upgrade our supply chain systems and identified other processes that could be improved using technology. These new systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our stores. Controlling our inventory levels will result in more efficient distribution and store operations. Payroll and related costs are a significant component of our selling, general and administrative costs. Accordingly, we believe that more efficient use of labor hours in our stores could increase our profitability. Information Systems. We believe that investments in appropriate technology help us to increase sales and control costs. In 2002, we implemented a new inventory management system. Our new system has allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise flow and control distribution and store operating costs. In 2003, we piloted our automatic replenishment system. This system automatically reorders key items, based on actual store level sales and inventory. In 2004, we rolled out this system to additional stores and merchandise categories. In 2005, we expect to roll this system out to even more stores and more categories, up to 500 stock-keeping units. As we utilize this system, our store management has more time to focus on customer service. Point-of-sale data allows us to track sales by merchandise category at the store level and assists us in planning for future purchases of inventory. We believe that this information will allow us to ship the appropriate product to stores at the quantities 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements commensurate with selling patterns. During the first half of 2004, we completed the roll-out of our point-of-sale systems to most of our stores. Corporate Culture and Values. We believe that honesty and integrity, doing the right things for the right reasons, and treating people fairly and with respect are core values within our corporate culture. We believe that running a business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be above reproach when making operational and financial decisions. Our management team visits and shops our stores like every customer; we have an open door policy to all our associates; and ideas and individual creativity are encouraged. We have standards for store displays, merchandise presentation, and store operations. Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of performance and virtually everyone in our store support center is available to help associates in the stores and distribution centers get their jobs done. Our disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and identifies and monitors our internal controls over financial reporting and ensures that our public filings contain discussions about the risks our business faces. We believe that we have the controls in place to be able to certify our financial statements. Additionally, we have complied with the updated listing requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market. Growth Strategy Store Openings and Square Footage Growth. The primary factors contributing to our net sales growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel program and selective mergers and acquisitions. From 2000 to 2004, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of 16.7% and operating income increased at a compound annual growth rate of 11.2%. We expect that the substantial majority of our future sales growth will come primarily from new store openings and secondarily from our store expansion and remodeling program. The following table shows the total selling square footage of our stores and the selling square footage per new store opened over the last five years. We began opening larger stores after the acquisition of 98 Cent Clearance Center in 1998. Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on selling square footage prospectively because our management believes the use of selling square footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity. The selling square footage statistics for 2000 through 2004 are estimates based on the relationship of selling to gross square footage. Year Number of Stores Average Selling Square Footage Per Store Average Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened 2000 1,729 4,520 6,240 2001 1,975 5,130 7,070 2002 2,263 5,763 7,783 2003 2,513 6,716 9,948 2004 2,735 7,475 10,947 We expect to increase our selling square footage in the future by opening new stores in underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store relocations). In fiscal 2005 and beyond, we plan to predominantly open stores that are approximately 10,000 selling square feet and we believe this size allows us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we plan to expand. At January 29, 2005, 551 of our stores, totaling 36.4% of our selling square footage, were 10,000 selling square feet or larger. In addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our store expansion program to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market opportunities. We target stores for expansion based on the current sales per selling square foot and changes in market opportunities. Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than 4,000 selling square feet in size. Store expansions generally increase the existing store size by approximately 6,000 to 10,000 selling square feet. Since 1995, we have added a total of 471 stores through four mergers and several small acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies with a similar single price point concept that have shown success in operations or provide a strategic advantage. We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in our retail sector as they become available. In 2004, we also acquired the rights to 42 store leases through proceedings associated with the bankruptcy of a former discount retailer. We will take advantage of these opportunities as they arise in the future. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Merchandising and Distribution. Expanding our customer base is important to our growth plans. We plan to continue to stock our new stores with the ever-changing merchandise that our current customers have come to appreciate. In addition, we are opening larger stores that contain more basic consumable merchandise to attract new customers. Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our stores resulting in increased sales. The presentation and display of merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers and creating a more exciting shopping experience. We believe our approach to visual merchandising results in high store traffic, high sales volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases. A strong and efficient distribution network is key to our ability to grow and to maintain a low-cost operating structure. We opened two new distribution centers in 2004, Ridgefield, Washington and Joliet, Illinois, which was a replacement for our Chicago distribution center. We currently operate nine distribution centers. We believe, these distribution centers in total will be capable of supporting approximately $4.5 billion in annual sales. We expect to continue to add distribution capacity to support our store opening plans, with the aim of remaining approximately one year ahead of our distribution needs. Based on current plans, we will not need to add any distribution capacity in 2005. New distribution sites are strategically located to reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store service areas. Our stores receive approximately 95% of their inventory from our distribution centers via contract carriers. The remaining store inventory, primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items, are delivered directly to our stores from vendors. For more information on our distribution center network, see “Properties.” Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. The value discount retail sector currently represents approximately 10% of the $300 billion discount retail market and appears to be the fastest growing sector. Our value discount retail competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar General, 99 Cents Only and Big Lots. The principal methods of competition include convenience and the quality of merchandise offered to the customer. Though we are a fixed-price point retailer, we also compete with mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Target, and regional discount retailers. In addition, several mass merchandisers and grocery store chains are now testing “dollar store” or “dollar zone” concepts in their stores, which will increase competition. Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in competition, especially because there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. Trademarks We are the owners of federal service mark registrations for “Dollar Tree,” the “Dollar Tree” logo, “1 Dollar Tree” together with the related design, and “One Price...One Dollar.” A small number of our stores operate under the name “Only One Dollar,” for which we have not obtained a service mark registration. We also own a concurrent use registration for “Dollar Bill$” and the related logo. During 1997, we acquired the rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything’s A Dollar, a former competitor in the $1.00 price point industry. Several trade names were included in the purchase, including the marks “Everything’s $1.00 We Mean Everything,” and “Everything’s $1.00,” the registration of which is pending. With the acquisition of Dollar Express, we became the owner of the service marks “Dollar Express” and “Dollar Expres$.” We became the owners of the “Greenbacks All A Dollar” and “All A Dollar” service marks, with the acquisition of Greenbacks. We have applied for federal trademark registrations for various private labels that we use to market some of our product lines. Employees We employed approximately 11,040 full-time and 19,115 part-time associates on January 29, 2005. The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on seasonal needs. We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. None of our employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 