ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A. Risks Relating to Capital and Liquidity Matters Our primary insurance subsidiary, MIC, is subject to capital adequacy requirements and could be required to cease writing new business and could be subject to the terms of its runoff support agreement with Allstate. As of December 31, 2010, MIC’s policyholders’ position exceeded the minimum policyholders’ position required by capital adequacy requirements by $184.3 million and MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio was 19.9 to 1. If MIC’s minimum policyholders’ position were to fall below the minimum, or risk-to-capital ratio rise above the maximum, levels necessary to meet regulatory capital adequacy requirements MIC could be required to immediately suspend writing new business in some or all states. In sixteen states, if a mortgage insurer does not meet a required minimum policyholders’ position (calculated in accordance with statutory formulae) or exceeds a maximum permitted risk-to-capital ratio of 25 to 1, it may be prohibited from writing new business until its policyholders’ position meets the minimum or its risk-to-capital ratio falls below the maximum, as applicable. In three of those states, the applicable regulations require a mortgage insurer to cease writing new business immediately if and so long as it fails to meet capital requirements. In thirteen states, the applicable regulator has discretion whether the mortgage insurer may continue writing new business. Thirty-four other states do not have specific capital adequacy requirements for mortgage insurers. MIC’s principal regulator is the Arizona Department of Insurance (the “Department”). Under applicable Arizona law, the Department may, but is not required to, order a mortgage insurer to cease transacting new business until it satisfies the minimum policyholders’ position requirement. In the first quarter of 2010, the Department granted MIC a waiver from its minimum policyholders’ position requirement. Following our April, 2010 capital raise, the Department withdrew the waiver due to MIC’s improved capital position. In January 2011, 41 Table of Contents we submitted a request to the Department to again grant MIC a waiver. The Department recently advised us that it anticipates notifying us in writing that: • Under the express requirements of Arizona law, MIC is not required to obtain a waiver from the Department in order to continue to write new business in the event that it does not maintain the minimum level of policyholders’ position. • MIC will be subject to additional reporting requirements but not restrictions upon its operations. • MIC’s policyholders’ position is one of a number of factors the Department considers in evaluating MIC’s liquidity and financial resources to fulfill its obligations under existing and prospectively issued insurance policies. Another important factor in the Department’s financial oversight and evaluation of MIC’s financial condition will include a financial statutory examination and actuarial analysis of MIC, initiated by the Department in January 2011. • Future action by the Department with respect to MIC, if any, would be taken based upon the Department’s evaluation of MIC’s liquidity and financial resources and not based solely upon MIC’s policyholders’ position. There can be no assurance that the Department will formally notify us in writing of the matters specified above, and any such notification may contain additional restrictions or limitations. If the Department were to determine that MIC’s liquidity, financial resources or, notwithstanding the above, a failure by MIC to maintain Arizona’s minimum policyholders’ position warranted regulatory action, it could, among other actions, order MIC to suspend writing new business in all states. Other states could require MIC to cease new business writings if we fail to maintain the particular state’s applicable capital adequacy requirement. In the first quarter of 2010, MIC was granted waivers in California, Illinois, and Missouri. The Illinois waiver expired on December 31, 2010. The waiver in California is still in effect, with no expiration date; however, the California Department of Insurance has the right to reevaluate its waiver and modify its position if circumstances change. The waiver in Missouri remains in effect until and unless MIC exceeds a 27 to 1 risk-to-capital ratio. Each of these waivers may be withdrawn at any time at the sole discretion of the relevant regulator. We cannot predict whether or under what circumstances the Missouri Department might modify or terminate its waiver. If MIC’s capital position approaches regulatory thresholds in the additional states in which the insurance regulator has discretion to grant a waiver, we would submit waiver requests from insurance departments in those states to enable MIC to continue to write new business in those states. We cannot predict whether or under what circumstances insurance regulators might exercise discretion to permit MIC to continue to write new business. Moreover, even with waivers, if MIC breached capital requirements, there is a risk that certain of our customer relationships would be negatively impacted. If we are successful in obtaining waivers, there is no assurance that any insurance department that has granted a waiver will not modify or revoke the waiver, or that it will renew a waiver when it expires. It is not clear what actions the insurance regulators in states that do not have capital adequacy requirements would take if MIC were to fail to meet capital adequacy requirements established by one or more states. Under the terms of the Allstate runoff support agreement, MIC is subject to restrictions that may apply if its risk-to-capital ratio exceeds 23 to 1. The original risk-in-force on policies covered under the Allstate runoff support agreement has been reduced from approximately $13 billion in 1994 to approximately $36 million as of December 31, 2010 (0.3% of original risk-in-force). We expect any potential future losses associated with the remaining risk-in-force under the Allstate runoff support agreement to be immaterial. Under the runoff support agreement, among other things, MIC may not declare or pay dividends at any time that its risk-to-capital ratio equals or exceeds 23 to 1 or if such a dividend would cause its risk-to-capital ratio to equal or exceed 23 to 1. In addition, if MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio equals or exceeds 23 to 1 at three consecutive monthly measurement dates, MIC may not enter into new insurance or reinsurance contracts without the consent of Allstate. Following such time as MIC’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 24.5 to 1, the runoff support agreement requires MIC to 42 Table of Contents transfer substantially all of its liquid assets to a trust account for the payment of MIC’s obligations to policyholders, therefore negatively affecting MIC’s and The PMI Group’s liquidity position. Any failure to meet the capital requirements set forth in the runoff support agreement with Allstate could, if pursued by Allstate, have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our plan to write certain new mortgage insurance in a subsidiary of MIC may not be successful and, even if it is implemented in some states, it may not allow us to continue to write mortgage insurance in other states. In the event that MIC is unable to continue to write new mortgage insurance in a limited number of states, we plan to write new mortgage insurance in those states through PMAC, which is licensed to write residential mortgage guaranty insurance in every state. The GSEs approved the use of PMAC as a limited, direct issuer of mortgage guaranty insurance in certain states in which MIC is unable to continue to write new business. These approvals are subject to certain conditions and restrictions and expire on December 31, 2011. There is no assurance that the GSEs will approve the use of PMAC as a direct issuer of mortgage guaranty insurance after their current approvals expire at the end of 2011. Some of our customers may choose not to purchase mortgage insurance from us in any state unless we can offer mortgage insurance through the combined companies in all fifty states or if MIC were to exceed regulatory capital requirements in one or more states. In the event MIC becomes out of compliance with applicable regulatory capital adequacy requirements in the future and is unable to continue to write mortgage insurance in certain states, our inability to successfully and timely implement our PMAC plan could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation and business. There can be no assurance that continued losses, or an acceleration of the development of such losses, will not cause MIC to be out of compliance with applicable regulatory capital adequacy requirements in the future. As a result of high unemployment and ongoing weakness in residential mortgage and housing markets, we do not expect PMI to report an operating profit in 2011. If losses are higher or more accelerated than we currently estimate and we do not raise capital or achieve offsetting statutory capital relief, in 2011, MIC’s policyholders’ position will likely decline below the minimum, and its risk-to-capital ratio increase above the maximum, levels necessary to meet state regulatory capital adequacy requirements, described above. Estimating future losses, and the timing of future losses, is inherently uncertain and requires significant judgment. Our expectations regarding MIC’s future losses may change significantly over time. Our losses have exceeded our estimates in past periods, and our future losses could materially exceed our estimates. Our future losses and MIC’s ability to meet regulatory capital adequacy requirements could be affected by a variety of factors. Such factors include, among others: • Current and future economic conditions, including continued slow economic recovery from the most recent recession or the potential of the U.S. economy to reenter a recessionary period, borrower access to credit, levels of unemployment, interest rates and home prices. • The level of new delinquencies, the claim rates of delinquencies (including the level of future modifications of delinquent loans) and the claim severity within MIC’s mortgage insurance portfolio. • Potentially negative economic changes in geographic regions where our insurance in force is more concentrated. • The levels of future modifications, rescissions and claim denials and future reversals of rescissions and claim denials. • The rate at which our U.S. mortgage insurance portfolio remains in force (persistency rate). • The timing of future claims paid. • Future levels of new insurance written (and the profitability of such business), which will impact future premiums written and earned and future losses. 43 Table of Contents • GSE and rating agency requirements and determinations. • The performance of our investment portfolio and the extent to which issuers of the fixed-income securities that we own default on principal and interest payments or the extent to which we are required to impair portions of the portfolio as a result of deteriorating capital markets. • The statutory credit MIC can continue to receive with respect to its subsidiary investments. • The performance of PMI Europe, which is affected by the U.S. and European mortgage markets. • Any requirements to provide capital under the PMI Europe or CMG Mortgage Insurance Company (“CMG MI”) capital support agreements. Many of these factors are outside of our control and difficult to predict. In addition, some of these factors, such as the views and requirements of the GSEs and rating agencies, are subjective and not subject to specific quantitative standards. Due to the inherent uncertainty and significant judgment involved in the numerous assumptions required in order to estimate our losses, loss estimates have varied widely. Internal models and various third parties have estimated our losses based on their own perspectives on such assumptions and have projected such losses to be materially higher than management’s estimates have indicated and/or that the time frame in which we would have to make payments with respect to such losses will occur sooner than we anticipate. If the amount and/or timing of MIC’s mortgage insurance losses were to emerge in a manner that is consistent with certain of those estimates, MIC could exhaust its available claims-paying resources and capital and surplus, the GSEs could withdraw their approval of MIC as an eligible mortgage insurer and MIC could be required to cease writing new business, unless we raise additional capital or are able to take other steps to enhance our capital. The substantial decline in our market capitalization, the downgrades in the ratings of our debt securities and our significant operating losses, combined with difficult market conditions generally and in our industry specifically, limit our ability to obtain debt or equity financing in capital markets transactions or from private sources. We cannot be sure that we will be able to raise capital on favorable terms and in the amounts that we require, or at all. Moreover, to the extent a capital raising transaction is undertaken in an effort to avoid an adverse action by a third party, we cannot be sure that the transaction could be completed in a timely manner to avoid such action. The terms of a capital raising transaction could require us to agree to stringent financial and operating covenants and to grant security interests on our assets to lenders or holders of our debt securities that could limit our flexibility in operating our business or our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to obtain capital in the future. We may not be able to access additional debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. If we were to obtain equity financing for a significant portion of our capital needs, any such financing would likely be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders or result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock, or both. Further, any capital initiatives in the form of reinsurance, or other risk transfer transactions of our existing portfolios, would have a dilutive effect on our future earnings, if any. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints, including adverse business performance or failures to receive amounts in respect of the Surplus Notes, could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations. We are a holding company and conduct our business operations through our various subsidiaries. Our principal sources of funds are dividends and other payments from our insurance subsidiaries, income from our investment portfolio and funds that may be raised from time to time in the capital markets. We are largely dependent on amounts from MIC to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, to pay holding company operating expenses, to make capital investments in our subsidiaries and, if we were to wish to do so in the future, purchase our common stock in the open market or pay dividends on our common stock. Following our capital raise in the second quarter of 2010, The PMI Group contributed $610 million to MIC in the form of capital and two surplus notes with aggregate face amounts of $285 million (the “Surplus Notes”). The terms of the Surplus 44 Table of Contents Notes provide for interest, principal and redemption payments that are generally concurrent with and equivalent to the payment of interest, principal or redemptions with respect to our convertible notes or cash settlements of our convertible notes once such conversions exceed a specified level. Pursuant to the Arizona Insurance Code, our interest in the Surplus Notes is subordinate to the claims of policyholders, claimants and beneficiaries and to all other classes of creditors, other than surplus noteholders. Amounts may only be paid out of surplus, and even if sufficient surplus is available, each interest, principal and redemption payment in respect of the Surplus Notes is subject to the prior approval of the Arizona Department of Insurance. Although we have received a letter from the Director of the Arizona Department of Insurance (the “Director”) approving MIC’s payment of interest provided all of the terms and conditions of the Surplus Notes are satisfied, that approval may be rescinded at any time. In addition, the pre-approval letter does not contain any advance approval of the payment of principal or redemption amounts. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive any payments in respect of the Surplus Notes, either in a timely manner in order to satisfy our obligations, including our obligations under our convertible notes, or at all. MIC did not pay dividends to us in 2010 and we do not expect that MIC will pay dividends during 2011. The inability of MIC and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends and other amounts (including amounts in respect of the Surplus Notes) in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could affect our ability to repay our debt, pay holding company expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations. Factors that may affect MIC’s and our other insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other amounts to meet our capital and liquidity needs include: adverse business circumstances, including higher levels of delinquencies, claims and/or severity of claims; reduced demand for our insurance; standards imposed by state insurance regulators relating to the payment of dividends by insurance companies; and the terms of the conditional approvals we have received from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with respect to PMAC. The laws of Arizona, the state of MIC’s domicile for insurance regulatory purposes, provide that MIC may pay out of any available surplus account, without prior approval of the Director, dividends during any 12-month period not to exceed the lesser of 10% of policyholders’ surplus as of the preceding year end or the last calendar year’s net investment income. To pay dividends in excess of that amount, MIC must obtain the prior approval of the Director. In addition to Arizona, other states may limit or restrict MIC’s ability to pay shareholder dividends. For example, California and New York prohibit mortgage insurers from declaring dividends except from undivided profits remaining above the aggregate of their paid-in capital, paid-in surplus and contingency reserves. In addition, it is possible that Arizona will adopt revised statutory provisions or interpretations of existing statutory provisions that will be more or less restrictive than those described above or will otherwise take actions that may further restrict the ability of MIC to pay dividends or make distributions or returns of capital. Under the terms of the agreement that we entered into with Fannie Mae with respect to PMAC, PMI has agreed not to pay dividends or make distributions with respect to its capital stock without the consent of Fannie Mae, subject to limited exceptions (including exceptions for payments under the Surplus Notes and payments The PMI Group, Inc. is required to cause MIC to make under our credit facility). The approval letter from Freddie Mac is contingent upon compliance with similar restrictions. If the value of the contingent note we received in connection with our sale of PMI Australia is reduced, our financial condition could suffer. In connection with the sale of PMI Australia, MIC received approximately $746 million in cash and a contingent note receivable (the “QBE Note”) in the principal amount of approximately $187 million, with interest accruing through September 2011 when it matures and is payable. The actual amount owed under the QBE Note is subject to reduction to the extent that the sum of (i) claims paid between June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2011, with respect to PMI Australia’s policies in force at June 30, 2008, (ii) increases in reserves with respect to such policies at June 30, 2011 as compared to June 30, 2008 and (iii) projected ultimate unpaid losses in excess of such reserves as of June 30, 2011 (together, the “ultimate projected losses”) exceeds $237.6 million (50% of 45 Table of Contents the unearned premium reserve of such policies at June 30, 2008). Based on the information made available to us on the performance of such PMI Australia policies through December 31, 2010, we do not currently expect that, as of December 31, 2010, ultimate projected losses with respect to such policies will exceed $237.6 million. However, we have not yet received the report with respect to the loss performance of PMI Australia’s insurance policies as of December 31, 2010, prepared by an independent actuary as of December 31, 2010. The last such actuarial report that we received was as of September 30, 2010. The performance of such policies will depend, among other things, on the performance of the Australian housing market and economy over the next several years and other factors that are beyond our control and difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the performance of such PMI Australia policies will not deteriorate in the future or that any such deterioration will not reduce the amount due on the QBE Note. In addition, the QBE Note is an unsecured obligation of the note issuer, and we cannot be certain that the note issuer will be able to make payment on the QBE Note when due. Any of these events would impair our ability to recover the full value of the QBE Note, reduce or eliminate the lenders’ commitments under our credit facility and require us to repay the amount borrowed under our credit facility to the extent in excess of any reduced or eliminated commitments. Any such failure to recover payment in full of the QBE Note or required repayment could materially impair our liquidity. See MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and Uses of Funds—The PMI Group Liquidity—The QBE Note. If MIC’s counterparties negatively assess MIC’s financial strength, our new insurance writings and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our customers are more closely scrutinizing MIC’s counterparty strength. In December 2010, the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) released a memorandum underscoring the need for robust due diligence when savings associations select private mortgage insurance providers to insure residential mortgages. In its December memorandum, the OTS directs savings associations to “establish and maintain prudent policies for identifying, selecting and monitoring private mortgage insurance providers.” In a list of suggested policies and procedures, the OTS provides that regulated savings associations should perform a thorough upfront analysis, with ongoing monitoring and board review and approval, of each insurer’s viability, capital and reserves, and overall financial condition. In addition, some mortgage lenders have reduced the amount of mortgage insurance they purchase from us as a result of our previous ratings downgrades. S&P’s and Moody’s insurer financial strength ratings of MIC are “B+” and “B2”, respectively. If we become ineligible to provide insurance to a portion or all of the mortgage loans from the GSEs or mortgage lenders, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, CMG MI receives capital support from MIC and is, therefore, dependent in part upon the financial strength of MIC. Therefore, sustained lower ratings may have additional negative impacts on CMG MI. If our customers negatively assess our counterparty strength, or we experience further downgrades, or if all or some of our competitors’ ratings improve and our ratings remain at the current level, our business prospects, revenues, competitive position, holding company debt ratings and the performance of our insurance subsidiaries could be significantly harmed. In addition, any downgrade in our holding company debt ratings would adversely affect our access to, and the cost of, external sources of financing. The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers and the terms of the conditional approvals we have received relating to PMAC, could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility. The GSEs have established approval requirements for eligible mortgage insurers, covering substantially all areas of PMI’s mortgage insurance operations, including requiring mortgage insurers to maintain certain insurer financial strength ratings. The GSEs may revise any eligibility requirement at any time in their own discretion. 46 Table of Contents Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently considering revisions to their eligibility guidelines that include greater limitations and restrictions on mortgage insurers. In 2008, in order to maintain its eligibility with the GSEs, MIC was required to submit remediation plans to each GSE outlining, among other things, the steps we are taking or plan to take to bolster MIC’s financial strength. To date each of the GSEs continues to treat MIC as an eligible mortgage insurer. There can be no assurance, however, that the GSEs will continue to treat MIC as an eligible mortgage insurer. The GSEs, in their own discretion, could require MIC to limit certain activities and practices in order to remain an eligible mortgage insurer with them. Such limitations could include, among other things, maximum risk-to-capital ratios and limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other payments, which could limit our operating flexibility and limit the areas in which we may write new business. In addition, the agreement that we entered into with Fannie Mae regarding PMAC restricts MIC and PMAC from taking a variety of actions, subject to enumerated exceptions, without Fannie Mae’s prior written consent, which is not to be unreasonably withheld, including amending certain agreements with affiliates, paying dividends or making distributions or payments of indebtedness, transferring securities, modifying underwriting guidelines beyond eligibility standards for standard GSE business, transferring new mortgage insurance business to other affiliates, entering into new, or modifying existing, expense or tax sharing arrangements or commutation transactions, or transferring assets outside the ordinary course of business or in excess of specified levels. The approval letter from Freddie Mac contains similar restrictions. Either or both of the GSEs could determine that MIC is no longer an eligible mortgage insurer. The GSEs, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the United States, are the primary beneficiaries of MIC’s mortgage insurance coverage. If either or both of the GSEs were to cease to consider MIC an eligible mortgage insurer and, therefore, cease accepting our mortgage insurance products, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed. A downgrade of our senior unsecured debt ratings could increase our borrowing costs and, therefore, adversely affect our liquidity. Our senior unsecured debt is rated “CCC+” by S&P and “Caa2” by Moody’s. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of financing, is dependent on various factors and may be adversely affected by our current unsecured debt ratings. Debt ratings are influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers, the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure, material changes in earning trends and volatility, inability to dividend monies from subsidiaries, our competitive position, and the rating agencies’ views on the future earnings prospects of our insurance subsidiaries and the mortgage insurance industry. Sustained deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors, including our weak financial results and continued weak earnings performance, could result in additional downgrades of our debt ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Placement of our senior unsecured debt ratings on credit watch by the rating agencies increases the risk that our debt ratings may be downgraded again in the near future. As a result of continued uncertainty in the market, there is a risk that we may impair the value of certain securities held in our investment portfolio in the future. During 2009 and 2010, we determined that certain securities held in our U.S. and International investment portfolios were “other-than-temporarily” impaired and incurred $14.9 million in losses related to the impairments. Changing and unprecedented market conditions have materially impacted and could in the future materially impact the valuation of investment securities in our investment portfolios, which may cause us to impair in the future some portion of the preferred and other securities remaining in our portfolio. Any decision to impair securities held in our investment portfolio would be based on our assessment of, among other things, recent credit downgrades of the applicable security or the issuer by the rating agencies; the severity and nature of 47 Table of Contents the decline in market value below cost regardless of the duration of the decline, the financial condition of the applicable issuer, whether scheduled interest payments are past due and whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recoveries in fair value. Future reductions to the value of our investment securities on an other-than-temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. B. Risks Relating to Risk Management and Loss Reserving Our loss reserves are subject to significant uncertainties, and, because we establish loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance policies only upon loan defaults, they are not intended to be an estimate of total future losses. In accordance with mortgage insurance industry practice, we establish loss reserves for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries only for loans in our existing default inventory. We establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, or LAE, based upon our estimate of unpaid losses and LAE on (i) reported mortgage loans in default and (ii) estimated defaults incurred but not yet reported to us by servicers. The establishment of loss reserves with respect to our mortgage insurance business is subject to inherent uncertainty and requires significant estimates and judgment by management, principally with respect to the rate and severity of claims. The loss reserve estimation process involves forecasting a complex set of factors, including future claim rates and claim sizes and macroeconomic conditions. We rely on models that have been developed internally and by third parties to analyze and predict estimated losses relating to the existing default inventory. Changes in the assumptions used by these models or by management could lead to an increase in our estimate of ultimate losses in the future. Loss reserve estimates are particularly uncertain during an economic downturn, which is characterized by market volatility and disruption. Continuing adverse economic and market conditions, including home price depreciation and high unemployment rates, and the resulting uncertainty with respect to the rate and severity of claims may result in re-estimations of and substantial increases to loss reserves in the future with respect to PMI’s existing delinquent loan inventory. If the resolution of pending delinquencies is less favorable than expected, or if actual claim rates in the future are higher than expected, we will need to increase claim rates in the future, which could result in additional increases in our loss reserves. Our mortgage insurance reserving process does not take account of the impact of future losses from loans that are not in default and, accordingly, our loss reserves are not intended to be an estimate of total future losses. Because of this, our actual future losses on our insured book of business (including both current and delinquent loans) will substantially exceed the loss reserve estimates we have established on loans in default, and future notices of default on insured loans will have a material impact on our financial results. Additional increases in loss reserves would negatively affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Rescission activity may not materially reduce our loss reserve estimates at the same levels we have recently experienced. Also, our loss reserves will increase if future rescission activity is lower than projected, if we reverse rescissions beyond expected levels, or if we are unable to defend our rescissions in litigation and, therefore, are required to reassume risk and establish loss reserves on delinquent loans. Based on PMI’s investigations and industry and other data, we believe that there were unexpectedly and significantly high levels of mortgage origination fraud and decreases in the quality of mortgage origination underwriting primarily in 2006 and 2007 when compared to historical levels. PMI has reviewed, investigated, and rescinded coverage of a material number of loans. Between December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2010, we have rescinded delinquent and non-delinquent loans (including primary and pool) with an aggregate risk-in-force of approximately $1.2 billion. When PMI rescinds insurance coverage, we remove the rescinded loan from our calculation of PMI’s risk-in-force and insurance in force. If the rescinded loan was delinquent, we cease to include that loan in our default inventory and, therefore, do not incorporate that loan into our loss reserve estimates. In arriving at our loss reserve estimates, we consider, among other factors, the effect of projected future rescission activity with 48 Table of Contents respect to the existing inventory of delinquent insured loans. Projected future rescissions are materially reducing our current loss reserve estimates; however, we do not expect that future rescissions will continue to reduce our loss reserves at the same levels as we have experienced. In the second quarter of 2010, we reduced our estimate of future rescissions as a result of a decline in rescission activity beyond our expectations. To the extent future rescission activity is lower than projected, we would be required to increase loss reserves in future periods. Upon receiving PMI’s notice of rescission with respect to a loan, the insured may seek additional information as to our rescission and/or request reconsideration by challenging the bases of our decision to rescind coverage on specific loans (“loan-level challenge”). (For a discussion of our rescission reconsideration process, see MD&A—Conditions and Trends Affecting our Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Rescission Activity and Claim Denials.) If we decide to reverse a rescission after consideration of a loan-level challenge, we reinstate coverage of the loan after receipt of the applicable premium. If we reinstate coverage of a loan that is delinquent at the time of reinstatement, regardless of its status at the time of the rescission, we reassume the risk and include the loan in our delinquent loan inventory. Based on our historical experience, we estimate the portion of policies that we expect to reinstate after our reconsideration is complete, and take such estimate into account in establishing our reserves. If levels of reinstatements exceed our expectations, we will be required to increase our loss reserves, and our financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. In some cases, insureds are also challenging our general rights to rescind coverage of all or any loans under the terms of PMI’s master policies (“general challenges”). Because insureds’ general challenges to PMI’s rescission rights do not necessarily identify specific rescinded loans, the total population of rescinded loans that may be subject to general challenges is uncertain. As we have received general challenges from several larger customers, the aggregate risk relating to general challenges would be material if we are unable to satisfactorily resolve such challenges. With respect to loans as to which we have determined not to reinstate coverage, we generally do not include a reserve for the possibility that we may be unsuccessful in defending our rescissions in litigation or other dispute resolution processes. If we are not able to informally resolve a disagreement with an insured regarding a rescission of coverage and/or its general challenges, the insured or PMI may seek resolution of the disagreement by filing a lawsuit or requesting that the parties agree to an arbitration or other form of dispute resolution. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings and Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of certain rescission related litigation and other proceedings in which PMI is currently involved. Because our or other mortgage insurers’ contractual rescission rights have been subject to few judicial decisions, it is unclear whether a court would adopt the same interpretation of our contractual rescission rights as we do. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will not be successful in defending our contractual bases of rescission against challenges. If this were to happen, we would be required to reassume rescinded risk and re-establish loss reserves on delinquent loans, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Claim denials may not materially reduce our loss reserve estimates at the same levels as we expect, and our loss reserves will increase if future claim denial activity is lower than projected or if we reverse claim denials beyond expected levels. In some cases, our servicing customers do not produce documents necessary to perfect a claim. This is often the result of the servicer’s inability to provide the loan origination file or other servicing records for our review. If the requested documents are not produced after repeated requests by PMI, the claim will be denied (“documentation claim denials”). Beginning in 2010, claim denial activity also includes claims denied or curtailed as a result of servicers’ failure to adhere to customary standards relating to the servicing of delinquent loans (“servicer-related claim denials”). We expect the number of servicer-related claim denials to significantly increase in 2011, and in 2010, we increased our assumptions of future claim denials. Our projection of future claim denials with respect to the current inventory of delinquent loans has reduced, and is continuing to reduce, our loss reserve estimates. If future expected documentation and servicer-related claim denials are lower than 49 Table of Contents expected, we would be required to increase our loss reserves in future periods. There can be no assurance that we will not significantly adjust our claim denial assumptions in the future. In estimating loss reserves, we also take into consideration the possibility of future claim denials that will later be reversed, and therefore paid. There can be no assurance, however, that the reversal frequency will not exceed our expectations or that our loss reserve estimates adequately provide for such occurrences. To date, we have not received material challenges to our documentation and servicer-related claim denials. However, there can be no assurance that we will not receive significant challenges in the future or that such challenges will not result in disputes with our customers. Our claim denial practices have not been subject to judicial interpretation; therefore, it is unclear whether a court would adopt the same interpretation of our rights as we do. If we are not successful in defending our claim denials, we could be required to pay significant additional amounts in claims, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. See We are subject to heightened litigation risk related to the increase in rescissions and claim denials, below. Loan modification and other similar programs may not materially mitigate our losses, and because the benefits to PMI’s claim rate from such programs are difficult to quantify, if we overestimate the number of loans which ultimately cure as a result of such programs, the loss reserves we establish may not be sufficient to cover our losses on existing delinquent loans, which could adversely affect our financial position. In order to reduce foreclosures, the federal government, including through the FDIC and the GSEs, and some lenders have adopted programs to modify residential mortgage loans to make them more affordable to borrowers. Under the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s (“Treasury”) Home Affordable Refinance Program (“HARP”), discussed above in Item 1(D)(1)(a). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance, certain borrowers have the opportunity to refinance into loans with lower interest rates. Under the Treasury’s Home Affordable Modification Program (“HAMP”), certain borrowers whose loans are delinquent may modify their loans if and so long as they strictly adhere to their trial modification plans and submit all required documentation during a 90 trial period, which, in many cases, can be considerably longer, in order to complete the modification process. As of December 31, 2010, 7,434 loans insured by PMI were in HAMP trial periods, compared to 23,180 loans at December 31, 2009. Levels of modifications under HAMP and other modification programs are expected to decline and may not continue to materially mitigate our losses. Based on our experience with HARP, HAMP and other loan modification programs, we expect that a material percentage of loans in our default inventory will be successfully modified and cured, and our loss reserve estimation process takes into consideration management’s expectations regarding the reduction to the claim rate that may occur as a result of modification programs. Our estimates of the number of loans that may cure through modification programs are inherently uncertain and involve significant judgment by management. The ultimate effect of these programs on PMI depends, among other things, on the number of loans in PMI’s portfolio that will qualify for modification and officially cure and the re-default rate of the loans that are officially modified. There is a risk that significantly fewer loans than expected will officially cure as a result of loan modification programs or that the re-default rate will be higher than expected. Because re-default rates can be affected by a number of factors (including changes in home values and unemployment rates), we cannot predict what the ultimate re-default rate will be. Accordingly, we cannot be certain what the benefits of these programs will be for PMI or whether these programs will provide material benefits to PMI, and there is no assurance that our loss reserves will be sufficient to cover future losses on existing delinquent loans. Due to higher losses, we may be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in the future. We perform premium deficiency analyses quarterly on a single book basis for the U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations using assumptions based on our best estimates when the analyses are performed. The calculation for premium deficiency, which is the present value of expected future losses and expenses to the extent they exceed the present value of expected future premium, requires significant judgment and includes estimates of future 50 Table of Contents expected premiums, expected claims, loss adjustment expenses and maintenance costs as of the date of the test. The calculation of future expected premiums uses assumptions for persistency and termination levels on policies currently in force. Assumptions for future expected losses include future expected average claim sizes and claim rates which are based on the current default rate and expected future defaults. A premium deficiency analysis was performed on a U.S. GAAP basis, as of December 31, 2010, and we determined there was no premium deficiency in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations segment despite continued significant losses in 2010. Because this premium deficiency calculation required significant judgment and estimation, to the extent actual losses are higher or actual premiums are lower than the assumptions we used in our analysis, we could be required to record a premium deficiency reserve in future reporting periods, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices may not anticipate all risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of unforeseen risks. We have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to borrower default risk in our insured portfolio by anticipating future risks and the magnitude of those risks. PMI has experienced and is continuing to experience material losses. The ultimate losses we incur are uncertain and will depend largely on general economic conditions, including rates of unemployment and home prices. Over the past several years, PMI has made significant changes to its underwriting and risk management policies, which have limited the types of new business PMI writes. Given the uncertainties caused by the slow pace of economic recovery and instability in the housing and mortgage markets and, to the extent that a risk is unforeseen or is underestimated in terms of magnitude of loss, these policies and practices will not completely insulate us from the effects of those risks. We expect that we will continue to experience material incurred and paid losses on insurance written prior to 2009. C. Risks Relating to Our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations If the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market is changed, or if the GSEs change other policies or practices, the amount of insurance that PMI writes could further decrease, which could result in a decrease of our future revenue. The GSEs are the beneficiaries of a significant portion of the insurance policies we issue as a result of their purchases, statutorily required or otherwise, of qualifying mortgage loans from lenders or investors. Accordingly, changes in the following or other GSE policies and practices with respect to mortgage credit enhancement could significantly affect our business: • amount of loans purchased by the GSEs that require mortgage insurance; • level of private mortgage insurance coverage lenders may select when private mortgage insurance is used as the required credit enhancement on low down payment mortgages; • GSEs’ pricing, including the amount of loan level delivery fees that the GSEs assess on loans that require mortgage insurance, which could reduce the demand for our products; • loan eligibility standards for loans purchased by the GSEs, which impact the conforming mortgage loan origination market, including loan quality and availability; • terms on which mortgage insurance coverage can be canceled before reaching the cancellation thresholds established by law; • discretionary purchases by the GSEs of credit enhancements other than mortgage insurance; • whether the GSEs influence mortgage lenders’ selection of mortgage insurers providing coverage; and • GSE loss mitigation programs on insured mortgages and the circumstances in which mortgage servicers must implement such programs. 51 Table of Contents Since September 2008, the GSEs have been operating under the conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. In conservatorship, the GSEs could change their business practices with respect to the mortgage insurance industry or individual mortgage insurers, which could materially impact the quantity and level of mortgage insurance coverage required by the GSEs on residential mortgage loans or MIC’s status as an eligible mortgage insurer. Moreover, the GSEs’ business practices may be impacted by legislative or regulatory changes governing their operations. The U.S. Congress will likely examine the role and purpose of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market and may implement structural and other changes to the GSEs. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in July 2010, required Treasury to conduct a study and develop recommendations to Congress regarding options for ending the conservatorship of the GSEs. Treasury published its proposals on February 11, 2011, which provide a broad outline for future proposed changes to the GSEs and domestic housing finance system. Treasury’s proposal includes a gradual (5 to 7 years) phase-out of the GSEs as participants in the mortgage finance industry. New federal legislation could reduce the level of private mortgage insurance coverage used by the GSEs as credit enhancement or eliminate the requirement altogether. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently considering revisions to their eligibility guidelines that involve greater limitations and restrictions on mortgage insurers. As a result of the foregoing issues, it is uncertain what role the GSEs will play in the housing finance system in the future or the impact of any such changes on our business. Changes in the GSEs’ roles or practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, harm our ability to compete and reduce the profitability of the mortgage insurance business generally and our business in particular. See also, The exercise of certain rights reserved by the GSEs under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers and the terms of the conditional approvals we have received relating to PMAC, could harm our profitability and reduce our operational flexibility, above. Our revenues could decline if PMI loses market share as a result of actions we have taken to limit new insurance written, increased industry competition and mortgage lenders and investors selecting alternatives to private mortgage insurance. The principal sources of PMI’s competition include other private mortgage insurers, several of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of public companies with direct or indirect capital reserves that provide them with potentially greater resources than we have, FHA and various alternatives to private mortgage insurance discussed below. Our new business writings in 2010 were limited as a result of continued competition with FHA, which has substantially increased its market share since early 2008. As discussed in Item 1.D.2. Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Competition, private mortgage insurers’ ability to compete with FHA has been negatively impacted on certain loans by the GSEs’ risk-based pricing structures, which include additive loan level pricing adjustments (“LLPA”), based on the risk characteristics of the particular loan and paid up-front by the lender to the GSE at the time of the loan sale transaction. Both GSEs recently announced LLPA increases on all loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 70%, effective in April 2011. As a result of these factors, the current and any future LLPA increases could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, on March 1, 2011, Freddie Mac announced that, for mortgages closing on or after June 1, 2011, it will cease purchasing mortgages with LTVs exceeding 95%. Freddie Mac’s LTV limitation may have the effect of reducing the size of the private mortgage insurance market and could negatively impact our ability to compete with FHA and our ability to increase our new insurance writings. Any current or new alternatives to private mortgage insurance that may develop could further reduce the market opportunities for private mortgage insurers and result in further increased competition, any of which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our new insurance writings in 2010 continued to be impacted by changes we made to PMI’s underwriting guidelines and customer management strategies prior to 2010. Further, as a result of the increase in rescission activity discussed in We are subject to heightened litigation risk related to the increase in rescissions and claim denials, we are experiencing an increase in the number of disagreements with our customers and are engaged in litigation. Such disagreements or litigation, even if resolved in our favor, may adversely affect our business relationships with these customers. 52 Table of Contents As a result of these and other factors, in 2011, we may be unable to write new business at desired levels. In addition, we believe that continued losses and the ongoing constrained market conditions facing mortgage insurers have provided opportunities for new entrants in the private mortgage insurance industry, and we expect that we may face increased competition from new competitors. One new private mortgage insurer, Essent US Holdings, Inc., announced that it began issuing its first mortgage insurance policies in 2010. Given the recent changes in industry conditions, we believe that the private mortgage insurance market has significantly contracted, and we not only face increased competition from existing and new private mortgage insurers, including the FHA and VA, but also from other sources, including lenders and investors holding mortgages in their portfolios and self-insuring. Any failure of PMI to effectively compete could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the volume of low down-payment home mortgage originations would cause our revenues to decline. Our future revenues also depend on the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations would reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance and, consequently, our revenues. The volume of low down payment mortgage originations is affected by, among other factors: • general economic conditions, including access to credit markets, unemployment rates, interest rates and home prices; • government policies, including government housing policies encouraging homeownership, federal and state economic stimulus programs and policies, and GSE and lender-specific policies; • the outcome of the definition of “qualified residential mortgage” developed by regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act; and • the availability of mortgage insurance for high LTV loans, which is affected by, among other things, general economic conditions, secondary market demand, government housing policy and capital constraints facing mortgage insurers. A decline in the volume of low down payment mortgage originations would reduce the demand for mortgage insurance products such as the ones we offer and could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance could suffer if PMI were to lose the business of a major customer. PMI’s top ten customers generated 51.0% of its premiums earned in 2010. The GSEs, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., are the primary beneficiaries of PMI’s mortgage insurance coverage. Earned premiums from Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues and represented 16.3% of PMI’s earned premiums in 2010. The loss of a significant customer for any reason could reduce our revenue and, if not replaced, harm our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on insured loans and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. We charge premium rates in effect at the time a policy is issued based upon our expectations regarding likely performance over the life of insurance coverage. We generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy. As a result, losses from higher than anticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums we charge on our insurance in force and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the 53 Table of Contents insurance coverage provided to customers. An increase in the number or size of unanticipated claims could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. PMI’s primary new insurance written and risk-in-force includes: • Loans with LTVs exceeding 97%, known as Above-97s. As of December 31, 2010, 19.5% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of Above-97s. In 2008, we stopped insuring Above-97s. • ARMs. As of December 31, 2010, 6.7% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of ARMs, excluding 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. • 2/28 Hybrid ARMs. As of December 31, 2010, 1.4% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of 2/28 Hybrid ARMs through PMI’s structured finance channel. • Alt-A loans. As of December 31, 2010, 15.3% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of Alt-A loans. In June 2008, we eliminated Alt-A loan eligibility altogether. • Interest only loans. As of December 31, 2010, 9.8% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of interest only loans. In February 2009, we stopped insuring interest only loans. • Payment option ARMs. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 2.6% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of payment option ARMs. In April 2008, we eliminated future coverage of negatively-amortizing ARM products. • Less-than-A quality mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2010, 6.5% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of less-than-A quality loans. We also insure loans that have more than one of the above risk characteristics. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 2.3% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of Above-97s that are less-than-A quality loans, approximately 1.8% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of Alt-A loans that are also Above-97s and approximately 2.5% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force consisted of interest only loans that are also Above-97s. This “layering” of risk has increased the risk of borrower default. A material portion of these loans were written in 2005 through the first quarter of 2008. Even in stable economic times, we expect higher default and claim rates for high-LTV, ARM, 2/28 Hybrid ARM, Alt-A, interest only, payment option ARM, and less-than-A quality loans, as well as loans with “layered” risk. Although we attempt to incorporate the higher default and claim rates associated with these loans into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. Continued negative economic conditions, high unemployment and/or stagnant house price appreciation could even more significantly increase the default risks associated with these loans. In addition, these same negative economic and market conditions could also significantly increase the default and claim risk on loans for which we did not assume higher default and claim rates. PMI’s loss experience may increase as its policies continue to age. Generally, we expect the majority of losses and LAE on insured loans in PMI’s current portfolio to occur during the second through the fourth years after loan origination. 47.7% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force as of December 31, 2010 is on insurance written from the period of January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009. Accordingly, a significant percentage of the primary portfolio is in, or approaching, its peak claim years. In addition, PMI has experienced adverse and accelerated delinquency development in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 insured loan portfolios. We believe our loss experience will continue as these policies age. A significant portion of loans in our delinquent loan inventory are those on which the borrowers are twelve or more payments in default. Historically, our claim rates have been higher as loans remain in our delinquency inventory. If the claim frequency on PMI’s risk-in-force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting premium 54 Table of Contents rates or if the resolution of our pending delinquencies requires more time or is less favorable than we expect, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. See MD&A—Conditions and Trends Affecting Our Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Defaults—Aging. It is uncertain whether foreclosure moratoriums will materially impact us. Various states and private parties have from time to time enacted foreclosure moratoriums, primarily to allow borrowers time to determine whether their loans could be modified. More recently, several large servicers have instituted self-imposed foreclosure moratoriums as a result of inquiries into the validity of certain foreclosure practices. As a result, there has been speculation that federal or state moratoriums may be imposed in the future. While foreclosure moratoriums are in effect, interest and other expenses continue to accrue on the impacted loans. If a loan subject to a foreclosure moratorium that was imposed to afford time to modify loans does not cure before the moratorium expires and the insured submits a claim to us, the additional interest and expenses that accrued during the moratorium may be a component of the insured’s claimable loss under our mortgage insurance policies. As a result of including additional interest and expenses in the calculation of the insured’s loss, our paid claim amounts may be higher in these cases than they would have been if there had not been foreclosure moratoriums in place. For moratoriums that may be instituted by particular servicers, our obligation under our mortgage insurance policies to pay additional interest and expenses may be limited. While current and future moratoriums may increase the length of time a loan remains in our delinquent loan inventory and temporarily delay our receipt of claims, we do not currently expect such moratoriums will materially reduce our total risk exposure. However, there is no assurance that foreclosure moratoriums will not adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Geographic concentration of PMI’s primary insurance in force could continue to increase losses and harm our financial performance. We are affected by economic downturns and other events in specific regions of the United States where a large portion of our U.S. business is concentrated. As of December 31, 2010, 9.6% of PMI’s primary risk-in-force was located in Florida and 7.4% was located in California. We are currently experiencing higher levels of losses in those states. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, 24.5% of our primary risk-in-force related to loans located in Illinois, Georgia, New Jersey, New York, Ohio and Washington. Collectively these states experienced higher default rates in 2010 than other states in the U.S. as a result of relatively weak economic activity, higher unemployment rates and declines in home prices. We expect that our loss experience with respect to risk-in-force in these states will remain elevated in the near future, which could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We delegate underwriting authority to mortgage lenders which could cause us to insure mortgage loans that do not conform to our underwriting guidelines, and thereby increase claims and losses. Approximately 82.7% of PMI’s flow new insurance written is underwritten pursuant to a delegated underwriting program under which, subject to review and periodic quality-control audits, certain mortgage lenders may determine whether mortgage loans meet our program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. If PMI determines that a lender participating in the delegated program commits PMI to insure a loan that fails to meet all of the approved underwriting guidelines, subject to certain exceptions, PMI has the right to exclude or rescind coverage on the loan. PMI may also suspend or terminate the insured’s delegated authority to extend coverage to new loans if it determines that the insured has not been complying with approved underwriting guidelines. Because PMI does not review the underwriting determinations on all loans, claims may be paid on certain loans with unacceptable risk profiles or which failed to meet approved underwriting guidelines at the time of origination. In addition, certain customers who fail to comply with approved underwriting guidelines may go undetected and continue to submit noncompliant loans under their delegated authority. 55 Table of Contents Higher persistency rates in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations place additional constraints on capital, making it more difficult to write new business. As discussed in Item 1(D)(5). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Business Composition—Persistency, PMI’s persistency rate has been elevated in recent years, at 83.5% in 2010, 84.3% in 2009 and 82.2% in 2008. PMI’s persistency rate has been positively impacted by lower borrower refinance activity of PMI insured loans, primarily as a result of declining home prices and the diminished availability of loan products. Persistency declined slightly in 2010 but remained at an elevated level due primarily to the continued effects of depressed home values relative to outstanding loan balances and limited access to credit. To the extent that home prices experience low appreciation rates or decline from current levels, we expect that PMI’s persistency rate will likely remain high and therefore limit the rate at which PMI’s risk-in-force runs off over the next few years. Because PMI must maintain sufficient capital to satisfy regulatory risk-to-capital metrics, higher persistency rates, even though they create relatively higher revenues, may constrain PMI’s capital position and its ability to write new business, which may adversely impact our future revenues and results of operations. We reinsure a portion of our mortgage insurance default risk with lender-affiliated captive reinsurance companies, which reduces our net premiums written and earned. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, offer products to lenders that are designed to allow them to participate in the risks and rewards of the mortgage insurance business. Many of the major mortgage lenders have established affiliated captive reinsurance companies. These captive reinsurance companies assume a portion of the risks associated with the lender’s insured mortgage loans in exchange for a percentage of the associated gross premiums. Because the GSEs currently prohibit cessions of gross risk or gross premium cedes greater than 25% to captive reinsurers and PMI ceased seeking excess-of-loss (XOL) captive reinsurance arrangements, we expect the portion of our new primary insurance business that is subject to captive arrangements to decrease. PMI did not enter into any new XOL captive reinsurance agreements in 2010. See Item 1(D)(9)(a). Business—U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Reinsurance—Captive Reinsurance. PMI will continue to cede premiums under its in-force XOL contracts until they run-off and mature pursuant to the existing terms and conditions, and as a result, captive reinsurance agreements will continue to negatively impact our net premiums written and earned. If we are unable to keep pace with the technological demands of our customers or with the technology-related products and services offered by our competitors, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Participants in the mortgage lending and mortgage insurance industries rely on e-commerce and other technology to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide our products and services electronically via the Internet or electronic data transmission, and we process the significant majority of our new insurance written and claims processing electronically. We expect this to continue, and accordingly, we believe that it is essential that we continue to invest resources in maintaining electronic connectivity with our customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technology. Because of capital constraints, we may reduce costs by, among other things, decreasing the level of resources devoted to e-commerce and technology upgrades. Our business may suffer if we do not keep pace with the technological demands of our customers and the technological capabilities of our competitors. D. Regulatory and Litigation Risk We are subject to heightened litigation risk related to the increase in rescissions and claim denials. We believe the rise in the numbers of rescissions heightens the risk of litigation concerning our rescission decisions. As we continue to review our insured loan portfolios, we will rescind more insurance policies in the future. The rise in the numbers of rescissions has resulted in lenders and policyholders challenging our specific rescissions of coverage on individual loans and our general right to rescind coverage under the terms and 56 Table of Contents conditions of PMI’s master policies. Item 3. Legal Proceedings, below, and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies, below, discuss certain rescission-related litigation and other proceedings in which PMI is currently involved. In addition to the litigation and other matters discussed in those sections, we are discussing with certain policyholders their objections to PMI’s rescissions of large groups of loans that in the aggregate are material, and as a result, we expect that PMI will engage in litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings related to some portion of these challenged rescissions if we are unable to resolve them informally. As we have received general challenges from several larger customers, the aggregate risk relating to general challenges would be material if we are unable to satisfactorily resolve such challenges. Any litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings in which we may become involved is likely to be costly even if we are ultimately successful in defending against such claims. Because our or other mortgage insurers’ contractual rescission rights have been subject to few judicial decisions, it is unclear whether a court would adopt the same interpretation of our contractual rights as we do. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will not be successful in defending our contractual bases of rescission against challenges. If this were to happen, we would need to re-assume rescinded risk and re-establish loss reserves on delinquent loans, which would negatively harm our financial condition and results of operations. See Rescission activity may not materially reduce our loss reserve estimates at the same levels we have recently experienced. Also, our loss reserves will increase if future rescission activity is lower than projected, if we reverse rescissions beyond expected levels, or if we are unable to defend our rescissions in litigation and, therefore, are required to reassume risk and establish loss reserves on delinquent loans, above. We also believe that the recent increase in our claim denial activity elevates the risk of litigation with our customers concerning such claim denials. We believe there will be a substantial increase in customer requests that we reconsider our claim denials, as a result of our expectation that we will significantly increase servicer-related claim denials in 2011. If we are not able to informally resolve a disagreement with an insured regarding a claim denial, the insured or PMI may seek resolution of the disagreement by filing a lawsuit or requesting that the parties agree to an arbitration or other form of dispute resolution. Our claim denial practices have not been subject to judicial interpretation; therefore, it is unclear whether a court would interpret our rights in the same manner as we do. If we are not successful in defending future lawsuits or other formal challenges to our claim denials, we could be required to pay significant additional amounts in claims, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. See Claim denials may not materially reduce our loss reserve estimates at the same levels as we expect, and our loss reserves will increase if future claim denial activity is lower than projected or if we reverse claim denials beyond expected levels, above. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to litigation risk generally. The mortgage insurance industry and PMI face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Consumers are bringing a growing number of lawsuits against home mortgage lenders and settlement service providers. Mortgage insurers, including PMI, have been involved in litigation alleging violations of RESPA and FCRA. In the past, a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers, including PMI, under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have provided products or services at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. RESPA generally precludes PMI from providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, in exchange for the referral of settlement services. Litigation relating to capital markets transactions and securities-related matters in general has increased and is expected to continue to increase as a result of the deterioration of the capital, credit, housing and mortgage markets. We cannot predict whether additional actions of the types described herein, or other actions, will be brought against us or other mortgage insurers in the future. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) could negatively impact private mortgage insurers and PMI. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in July 2010, expands federal oversight of the insurance industry and consumer financial products and services, including mortgage loans. One component of the Dodd-Frank Act requires mortgage lenders and securitizers to retain a portion of the risk on mortgage loans they sell or securitize, unless the mortgage loans are “qualified residential mortgages” or are insured by the FHA or another federal agency. Regulators are required to develop a definition of a qualified residential mortgage by April 15, 2011, and in doing so, the legislation requires regulators to consider the presence of mortgage insurance. We believe that the release of a draft rule will likely occur in the near future. The details of the regulation remain unknown. Depending on whether, and to what extent, the presence of mortgage insurance becomes a criterion for a “qualified residential mortgage,” the proposed rule may positively or negatively affect the private mortgage insurance industry and our future insurance writings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services. It is unclear whether this new agency will issue any rules or regulations that affect our business or the volume of low-down-payment mortgage originations. Such rules and regulations could negatively impact our financial position or results of operations. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry and PMI are subject to regulatory risk and have been subject to increased scrutiny by insurance and other regulatory authorities. PMI and the mortgage insurance industry are subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation by state insurance departments whose primary goal is to safeguard insurers’ solvency for the protection of policyholders. Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad powers to supervisory agencies and officials to examine and investigate insurance companies and to enforce rules or exercise discretion touching almost every aspect of PMI’s business. We have recently been subject to increased scrutiny by the Arizona Department and other state insurance regulatory authorities as a result of our substantial losses in recent years. The Arizona Department recently gave us notice that it intends to commence a financial examination of MIC, PMG, PMAC, PIC, PRC and RIC for the three year period between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010. In addition, as discussed above in, Our primary insurance subsidiary, MIC, is subject to capital adequacy requirements and could be required to cease writing new business and could be subject to the terms of its runoff support agreement with Allstate, the Department has advised us that the financial examination is an important factor in its continuing financial oversight and evaluation of MIC’s financial condition. We cannot predict whether the Arizona Department’s examinations will result in it making additional inquiries or taking subsequent actions, which could potentially affect our financial condition and results of operation. The insurance industry has also become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities concerning certain practices, including captive reinsurance arrangements. MIC continues to respond to requests from the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for information regarding its captive reinsurance arrangements among other matters. We cannot predict whether the Minnesota Department of Commerce and the HUD OIG’s administrative subpoenas will lead to further inquiries, or investigations, of these matters, or the scope, timing or outcome of any inquiry or actions by those Departments or any inquiry or actions that may be commenced by state insurance departments, attorneys general or other regulators. As a result of the deterioration of the housing and mortgage markets in the U.S., regulatory oversight of our insurance subsidiaries may significantly increase in the future. Increased federal or state regulatory scrutiny could lead to new legal precedents, new regulations or new practices, or regulatory actions or investigations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 58 Table of Contents Changes to the risk-based capital rules applicable to the GSEs could cause PMI’s business to suffer. The FHFA, the agency which currently regulates the GSEs, has risk-based capital rules that prescribe treatment of credit enhancement issued by private mortgage insurers and provides capital guidelines for the GSEs in connection with their use of other types of credit protection counterparties in addition to mortgage insurers. The rules require the GSEs to hold different amounts of capital against mortgage insurance coverage according to the rating of the mortgage insurance company that issued the policy. See Item 1(D)(1)(a). U.S. Mortgage Insurance Operations—Products—Primary Mortgage Insurance. Although these rules were suspended in 2008, the FHFA, or other governmental authority, including Congress, may revisit the risk-based capital rules and the treatment of mortgage insurance at any time in the future. If the rules change or if the GSEs begin again to follow the FHFA’s risk-based capital rules, demand for our mortgage insurance products could decrease and our consolidated financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The implementation of the Basel III Capital Accord may affect the use of mortgage insurance. In November, 2010, the United States agreed to a new capital framework known as Basel III. This new capital framework will replace the Basel II capital rules, which have not yet been implemented for U.S. depository institutions or holding companies. The Basel III framework will apply to the 10 to 12 largest U.S. banking organizations, as well as banking companies that have significant international operations. It may also be imposed on non-banking financial companies that are determined to present systemic risks to the U.S. financial system. The Basel III framework refines the Basel II risk based structure by requiring the use of highly stressed scenarios in determining the appropriate risk of bank assets, and it will also increase the required minimum capital ratios. The Basel III framework restricts the instruments that can count toward meeting the capital requirements, placing greater emphasis on common equity and retained earnings. Finally, Basel III will impose a new minimum liquidity standard on banking organizations. The Basel III regime will be phased in beginning in 2013. However, implementing regulations have not yet been drafted by the agencies, and until these regulations are finalized the exact contours of the new capital requirements cannot be determined. It is possible that some of the Basel III elements will be required of small banking organizations, and it is also possible that the implementation dates will be modified to reflect current economic conditions. While these changes are significant, the capital rules will continue to risk-weight assets based on internal models that use inputs such as the probability of default, and the bank’s expected loss given a default. We expect that mortgage insurance will be factored in these internal models and could provide mortgage lenders with capital relief by reducing the capital charge on mortgages, although the extent of capital relief will depend upon the particular model employed by the banking organization. We cannot predict the extent of any benefits that lenders will ultimately obtain under Basel III, or how any such benefits may affect the opportunities for growth of the mortgage insurance industry. If Basel III is implemented in a manner that does not provide sufficient capital relief to lenders using mortgage insurance, our business could be negatively impacted. E. Other Risk We are exposed to risk in the winding down of our European operations. Certain risks remain in the winding down of our European operations. PMI Europe’s net income was $17.2 million in 2010 and $19.8 million in 2009. We expect PMI Europe’s net income to materially decline in future periods, primarily as a result of the significant decrease in PMI Europe’s risk-in-force from $4.9 billion at December 31, 2009 to $0.7 billion at December 31, 2010. Approximately 16% of PMI Europe’s risk-in-force relates to six reinsurance transactions. PMI Europe established loss reserves of $16.4 million as of December 31, 2010 in respect of its reinsurance portfolio. In addition, PMI Europe has posted collateral of $2.5 million related to its reinsurance coverage. PMI Europe is currently engaged in negotiations with a counterparty regarding the appropriate amounts of collateral required to be posted by PMI Europe under the terms of the applicable reinsurance transactions. PMI Europe may be 59 Table of Contents required to post additional material amounts of collateral following negotiations with the counterparty or as a result of future loss developments if the performance of these exposures deteriorates. The maximum amount of collateral PMI Europe could be required to post is $103 million, representing its total risk-in-force under these reinsurance transactions. If PMI Europe experiences increased losses and increases to its loss reserves, it may be required to post additional collateral, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of PMI Europe’s CDS contracts contain collateral support provisions which, upon certain defined circumstances, including deterioration of the underlying mortgage loan performance, require PMI Europe to post collateral for the benefit of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2010, PMI Europe had posted collateral of $4.7 million on its CDS transactions. As of December 31, 2010, the maximum amount of collateral that PMI Europe may be required to post under these contracts is approximately $12.4 million, including the $4.7 million already posted. The actual collateral posted will depend upon performance of the underlying mortgage portfolios, claim payments and the extent to which PMI Europe is successful in commuting these contracts. If PMI Europe is required to post additional collateral, its financial condition could be negatively impacted. We may be required to record a full valuation allowance or increase the current partial valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets and may not be able to realize all of our deferred tax assets in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had net deferred tax assets of $142.9 million. Our management reviews the need to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. Under Topic 740, and beginning in 2010, we do not use forecasted taxable income from our mortgage insurance activities as positive evidence in determining whether or not the deferred tax assets will be utilized. In 2010, we evaluated our deferred tax assets in light of this and other factors and determined that it was necessary to increase the valuation allowance by $279.0 million to $527.3 million. We expect to be able to utilize our remaining net deferred tax assets of $142.9 million based on contractual cash flow streams and tax strategies that are not dependent on generating taxable income from our mortgage insurance activities. There is no assurance that our future expected cash flow streams or tax strategies will permit us to utilize our remaining $142.9 million net deferred tax assets. We may be required to record a full valuation allowance or increase the current partial valuation allowance against our remaining net deferred tax assets, with a corresponding charge to net income, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See MD&A—Critical Accounting Estimates—Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets for more discussion. If we return to a period of sustained profitability, we may be able to utilize a substantial additional portion of our $670.2 million deferred tax assets. There is no assurance, however, that we will return to profitability. Even if we return to profitability, there is a risk that such period of profitability will not be long enough in duration to generate sufficient future taxable income to permit us to realize some or all tax benefits. Even if we were to realize future tax benefits, the timing may be significantly delayed. Our Amended and Restated Tax Benefits Preservation Plan may not be effective in preventing an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and our deferred tax assets and other tax attributes could be significantly limited. We have significant deferred tax assets that are generally available to offset future taxable income or income tax. On August 12, 2010, the Board of Directors of The PMI Group adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan (the “Plan”). In connection with the adoption of the Plan, on August 12, 2010, The PMI Group’s Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of The PMI Group’s common stock payable to holders of record of the common stock on August 23, 2010. On February 17, 2011, the Board of Directors of The PMI Group adopted the Amended and Restated Tax Benefits Preservation Plan (as amended, the “Amended Plan”), which amends and restates the Plan in its entirety to (i) extend the final expiration date of the Amended Plan to February 16, 2014; (ii) provide that the Amended Plan will expire if The 60 Table of Contents PMI Group’s Board of Directors determines that a limitation on the use of tax benefits under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, would no longer be material to The PMI Group; (iii) provide that the Amended Plan will expire on August 11, 2011 if stockholder approval of the Amended Plan has not been received before such time; and (iv) provide that The PMI Group’s Board of Directors will consider at least annually whether to permit the Amended Plan to expire. All of the other terms of the Amended Plan remain the same as the Plan. The Amended Plan will be submitted to The PMI Group’s stockholders for approval at its 2011 annual meeting. The purpose of the Amended Plan is to help protect our ability to recognize certain tax benefits in future periods from net unrealized built in losses and tax credits, as well as any net operating losses that may be expected in future periods (the “Tax Benefits”). Our use of the Tax Benefits in the future would be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, an “ownership change” will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5-percent shareholders” (as defined under U.S. income tax laws) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The Amended Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood that we will experience an ownership change by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a “5-percent shareholder” and (ii) discouraging any existing “5-percent shareholder” from acquiring more than a minimal number of additional shares of our stock. Although the Amended Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood that we will experience an ownership change, there can be no assurance that the Amended Plan will be effective in preventing an ownership change. In addition, if the Amended Plan is not approved by stockholders at the 2011 annual meeting, the Amended Plan will expire on August 11, 2011 (unless such date is advanced). If an ownership change were to occur, our ability to use the Tax Benefits in the future would likely be limited, which would have a significant negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our common stock is subject to significant price fluctuation. Stock prices in general, and the price of our common stock in particular, have experienced significant fluctuation over the past year. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due to general stock market conditions and change in market perception of the mortgage insurance industry, as well as a variety of other factors, including the following: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our capital and liquidity constraints; • increases in our loss experience, including as a result of domestic and international economic recessions, declining values of homes, higher unemployment rates and tightening credit market; • our ability to raise additional capital and to repay our debts; • legislative or regulatory changes that may affect the demand and pricing for private mortgage insurance; • changes in the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market, or the changes in the policies or practices of the GSEs; • changes in our capital requirements; and • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions. The fluctuation may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and will make it more difficult for us to raise equity capital and, if we are able to raise equity capital, significantly increase dilution to our existing stockholders. The NYSE’s quantitative continuing listing standards require any listed security to have an average closing price during any 30 consecutive trading days of not less than $1.00 per share and an average global market capitalization for any such period of not less than $25 million. Our common stock has traded below $1.00 as 61 Table of Contents recently as May 2009. There is no assurance that our stock will trade above the $1.00 minimum price requirement or that we will satisfy the NYSE market capitalization requirements. If we do not satisfy any of NYSE’s continued listing standards, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE unless we cure the deficiency during the period provided by the NYSE. If the NYSE were to delist our common stock, it is likely that the liquidity of our common stock will be substantially reduced, which could significantly reduce our stock price. 