Risk Factors. Our primary market areas depend substantially on tourism, and a downturn in tourism could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business is concentrated in and around Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, a popular beach and golf resort area. The economy of Myrtle Beach significantly depends on services and industries related to tourism. Any event that negatively and materially impacts tourism will likely adversely impact the Myrtle Beach economy. Tourism revenue is vulnerable to fluctuations in the national economy. A prolonged downturn in the national economy could have a significant adverse effect on the economy of the Myrtle Beach area. Virtually any development or event that could dissuade travel or spending related to tourism, whether inside or outside of Myrtle Beach, could adversely affect the Myrtle Beach economy. Consequently, the Myrtle Beach economy is more susceptible than the economies of other cities to issues such as higher gasoline and other fuel prices, unemployment levels, recession, rising interest rates, and other economic conditions, whether domestic or foreign. Coastal North and South Carolina are also more susceptible to severe weather, such as hurricanes and flooding. A deterioration in economic conditions generally, and a slowdown in tourism in particular, could result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and expose us to a greater risk of loss: - Loan delinquencies may increase; - Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; - Demand for our products and services may decline; and - Collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, reducing the borrowing power of our customers, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. Rising interest rates may reduce the Company's net income and future cash flows. Interest rates were recently at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate 11 times to 4.00%. If interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on the Company's deposits and borrowings reprice upwards faster than the rates on the Company's loans and investments, the Company would experience compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Company's profitability. 39 The Company's allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company's earnings. The Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. If the Company is required to increase its loan allowances, future earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company's experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to charge off the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A charge off reduces the Company's allowance for loan losses. If the Company's allowance for loan losses were to become insufficient, it would be required to increase its allowances by recording a larger provision for loan losses, which would reduce earnings for that future period. Because the Company competes primarily on the basis of the interest rates it offers depositors and the terms of its loans it offers borrowers, the Company's margins could decrease if it were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans in response to competitive pressures. The Company faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. The Company competes primarily on the basis of its depository rates, the terms of the loans it originates and the quality of the Company's financial and depository services. This competition has made it more difficult for the Company to make new loans and, at times, has forced the Company to offer higher deposit rates in its market area. The Company expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to market entry, enabled banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and enabled non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Recent changes in federal banking law permit affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which also will change the competitive environment in which the Company conducts business. Some of the institutions with which the Company competes are significantly larger than the Company, and therefore, have significantly greater resources. Various factors could hinder or prevent takeover attempts. Provisions of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and federal and state regulations make it difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions will also make the removal of the current board of directors or management, or the appointment of new directors, more difficult. For example, the Company's Certification of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could impede a takeover or prevent the Company from 40 being acquired, including a classified board of directors and limitations on the ability of the Company's stockholders to remove a director from office without cause. The Company's board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or establish classes or series of preferred stock with rights, preferences and limitations as determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. These factors give the board of directors the ability to prevent, or render more difficult or costly, the completion of a takeover transaction that the Company's stockholders might view as being in their best interests. 