ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we cannot compete effectively in the wholesale apparel industry, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The intimate apparel industry is highly competitive. The wholesale industry is characterized by a large number of small companies manufacturing and selling unbranded merchandise, and by several large companies which have developed widespread consumer recognition of the brand names associated with merchandise manufactured and sold by these companies. In addition, some of the larger retailers to whom we have historically sold our products have sought to expand the development and marketing of their own brands and to obtain intimate apparel products directly from the same or similar sources from which we obtain our products. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and sourcing capabilities than we do. If we do not continue to provide high quality merchandise and reliable service on a timely basis at competitive prices, we may not be able to continue to compete in our industry. If we are unable to compete successfully, we co uld lose one or more of our significant customers which, if not replaced, could negatively impact sales and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The failure to successfully order and manage inventory to reflect customer demand and anticipate changing consumer preferences and buying trends may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our success depends, in part, on management’s ability to anticipate and respond effectively to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer tastes and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. Generally, merchandise must be ordered well in advance of the applicable selling season and the extended lead times may make it difficult to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or price changes. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends and we misjudge the market for our products or our customers’ purchasing habits, then our product offerings may be poorly received by the ultimate consumer and may require substantial discounts to sell, which would reduce sales revenue and lower profit margins. In addition, we will incur additional costs if we need to redesign our product offerings. Brand image also may suffer if customers believe that we are unable to offer innovative products, respond to the latest fashion trends or maintain product quality. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are dependent upon the continuing service of key personnel and the hiring of other qualified employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Melvyn Knigin, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Knigin or other key personnel could affect our ability to operate the business effectively. Other than a $5 million policy on the life of Mr. Knigin, we do not carry key man insurance for any management or other key personnel. The death of a key employee could adversely affect our profitability and there would be no insurance to mitigate the loss. We also require skilled management personnel in areas such as design, merchandising, sales, sourcing and buying. A shortage of or an inability to retain such employees could have an adverse impact on productivity and costs, the ability to expand, develop and distribute products, generate sales and enter into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed expectations. We rely on one key customer, and a significant decrease in business from or the loss of such key customer could substantially reduce revenues. Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 25% and 51% of our sales for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, respectively. We do not have a long-term contract with Wal-Mart and, therefore, our business is subject to significant unpredictable increases and decreases in sales depending upon the size and number of orders we receive from Wal-Mart. Accordingly, a significant decrease in business from or loss of Wal-Mart as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, which, in turn, would affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The extent of our foreign sourcing and manufacturing may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. As a result of the magnitude of foreign sourcing and manufacturing, our business is subject to the following risks: • political and economic instability in foreign countries, including heightened terrorism and other security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional or more frequent inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods, or an increase in transportation costs of raw materials or finished product; • the imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports, including quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the United States and foreign countries, including China, where both companies conduct business; • the imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • significant fluctuation of the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; 8 Table of Contents • restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries; and • violations by foreign contractors of labor and wage standards and resulting adverse publicity. If these risks limit or prevent us from selling, manufacturing or acquiring products from foreign suppliers, our operations could be disrupted until alternative suppliers are found, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate on very tight delivery schedules and if there are delays and expected delivery dates cannot be met, it could negatively affect our profitability. If there is a delay in the delivery of goods and delivery schedules cannot be met, then our customers may cancel their orders or request a reduced price for the delivery of their orders. If orders are canceled, it would result in an over-inventoried position and require the sale of inventory at low or negative gross profits, which would reduce our profitability. We may also incur extra costs to meet customer delivery dates, which would also reduce our profitability. Any disruptions at our distribution center could materially affect our ability to distribute products, which could lead to a reduction our revenue and/or profits. Our distribution center in Poplarville, MS serves our customers. There is no backup facility or any alternate distribution arrangements in place. If we experience disruptions at our distribution center that impede the timeliness or fulfillment of the products being distributed, or our distribution center is partially or completely destroyed, becomes inaccessible, or is otherwise not fully usable, whether due to unexpected circumstances such as weather conditions or disruption of the transportation systems or uncontrollable factors such as terrorism and war, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to upgrade information technology systems as necessary could have an adverse effect on our operations. Some of our information technology systems, which are primarily utilized to manage information necessary to price and ship products, manage production and inventory and generate reports to evaluate our business operations, are dated and are comprised of multiple applications, rather than one overarching system. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. If we are unable to effectively implement these systems and update them where necessary, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be sued for trademark infringement, which could force us to incur substantial costs and devote significant resources to defend the litigation. We use many trademarks and product designs in our business and believe these trademarks and product designs are important to our business and our competitive position and success. As appropriate, we rely on the trademark and copyright laws to protect these designs even if not formally registered as marks, copyrights or designs. We may be sued for alleged infringement of our proprietary rights. The party claiming infringement might have greater resources than us to pursue its claims, and we could be forced to incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend the litigation. Moreover, if the party claiming infringement were to prevail, we could be forced to discontinue the use of the related trademark, patent or design and/or pay significant damages, or to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements with the prevailing party, assuming these royalty or licensing arrangements are available at all on an economically feasible bas is, which they may not be. If we cannot protect our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. We may experience difficulty in effectively limiting unauthorized use of our respective trademarks and product designs worldwide, which may cause significant damage to our brand name and our 9 Table of Contents ability to effectively represent ourselves to our agents, suppliers, vendors and customers. We may not be successful in enforcing our trademark and other proprietary rights and there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected in all countries or that we will prevail when defending our trademark and proprietary rights. 