Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvesting in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter.Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our budgeted expense levels are based on our visibility into customer spending plans and our projections of future revenue and gross margin. Substantial reductions in our expense levels to react to deviations from our projections can take time to implement. Uncertain economic or market conditions, and changes in customer spending levels, can make it difficult to forecast future revenue and margins. Some of our large existing communications service provider customers have announced their intent to constrain capital spending, including in future periods. Other such customers are pursuing purchasing strategies or adopting procurement approaches intended to drive reductions in spending or to consolidate the number of their direct suppliers of networking technology. By way of example, the impact of these initiatives contributed to quarterly fluctuation in our results in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. Additional factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: •broader macroeconomic conditions, including weakness and volatility in global markets, that affect our customers; •changes in capital spending by large communications service providers;•order volume, cancellations and timing; •backlog levels and the percentage of a given quarter's revenue generated from orders placed during that quarter;•the level of competition and pricing pressure we encounter;•the impact of commercial concessions or unfavorable commercial terms required to maintain incumbency or secure new opportunities with key customers; •the level of start-up costs we incur to support initial deployments, gain new customers or enter new markets;•the timing of revenue recognition on sales, particularly relating to large orders;•the mix of revenue by product segment, geography and customer in any particular quarter;•manufacturing capacity; •installation service availability and readiness of customer sites;•seasonal effects in our business; and•our level of success in improving manufacturing efficiencies and achieving cost reductions in our supply chain. In recent periods, the percentage of a given quarter's revenue that we generate from orders placed during that quarter has increased, which may make it more difficult to predict accurately our quarterly results of operations and may increase the likelihood of fluctuations in our results. The factors above could cause our level of operating expense or inventory to be high relative to revenue, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. Quarterly fluctuations from these and other factors may also cause our results of operations to fall short of or significantly exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause volatility in our stock price. A small number of large communications service providers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While our customer base has diversified in recent years to include a number of network operators and customer verticals, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among a few, large global communications service providers. By way of example, AT&T accounted for approximately 18.5% of fiscal 2014 revenue, and our largest ten customers contributed 56.4% of fiscal 2014 revenue. Consequently, our financial results are closely correlated with the spending of a relatively small number of service provider customers and can be significantly affected by market, industry or competitive dynamics affecting their businesses. Our reliance upon a relatively small number of service provider customers also increases our exposure to changes in their network priorities and purchasing strategies. Our service provider customers have previously undertaken, and may undertake in the future, procurement initiatives to support their network strategy, which initiatives may include reductions in capital expenditure, commercial concessions from suppliers and reductions in the number of direct suppliers of networking technology. By way of example, in September 2014, we announced that Ciena had been selected by AT&T as a participating vendor in its Domain 2.0 supplier program. The Domain 2.0 initiative is the next generation of AT&T's Supplier Domain Program, intended to enable AT&T to quickly transition to next-generation, cloud-based architectures that embrace NFV and SDN, and accelerate AT&T's time to market with new products and services. Our commercial arrangement relating to this opportunity adversely impacted our revenue and gross margin in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, and is expected to have a proportionately lesser impact on our results in first quarter of fiscal 2015 and future quarterly periods. Because the terms of our 17Table of Contentsframework contracts, including with respect to our Domain 2.0 opportunity, do not obligate customers to purchase any minimum or guaranteed order quantities, spending by service provider customers can be unpredictable. A significant change in network priorities, a reduction in spending by our key customers, the loss of one or more of our large service provider customers, or market or industry factors adversely affecting service providers generally, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations.We face a competitive market for sales of communications networking equipment, software and services, and this level of competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced demand, lower gross margins and loss of market share that could harm our business and results of operations. Competition is particularly intense, both in the U.S. and abroad, as we and our competitors aggressively seek to displace incumbent equipment vendors at large service providers and secure new customers. In an effort to maintain our incumbency and secure additional customer opportunities, we have in the past, and may in the future, agree to aggressive pricing, commercial concessions and other unfavorable terms that reduce our revenue and result in low or negative gross margins on a particular order or group of orders. We expect this level of competition to continue or potentially increase, as multinational equipment vendors seek to promote adoption of competing architectural approaches for next-generation networks and retain incumbent positions with large customers globally. We also expect our competitive landscape to broaden. As network technologies, features and layers converge, and demands for software programmability, management and control increase, we expect that our business will overlap more directly with additional networking solution suppliers, including IP router vendors, system integrators, software vendors and other information technology vendors.Competition in our markets, generally, is based on any one or a combination of the following factors:•product functionality, speed, capacity, scalability and performance;•price and total cost of ownership of our solutions; •incumbency and existing business relationships;•ability to offer comprehensive networking solutions, consisting of equipment, software and network consulting services;•product development plans and the ability to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements;•flexibility and openness of platforms, including ease of integration, interoperability and integrated management; •manufacturing and lead-time capability; and•services and support capabilities.A small number of very large companies have historically dominated our industry, many of which have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, broader product offerings and more established relationships with service providers and other customer segments than we do. Because of their scale and resources, they may be perceived to be a better fit for the procurement, or network operating and management strategies of large service providers. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly or may be more attractive to customers in a particular product niche. If competitive pressures increase or we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our business and results of operations could suffer. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of spending by customers in response to these conditions. Our business and operating results, which depend significantly on general economic conditions and demand for our products and services, could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic, and market conditions, globally or with respect to a particular region where we operate. Broad macroeconomic weakness and market volatility have previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services that have adversely affected our operating results. Macroeconomic and market conditions could be adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors in the United States and elsewhere that could adversely affect spending levels of our customers and their end users, and create volatility or deteriorating conditions in the markets in which we operate. Macroeconomic uncertainty or weakness could result in:•reductions in customer spending and delay, deferral or cancellation of network infrastructure initiatives; •increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities;•increased pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue, gross margin and profitability;•difficulty forecasting operating results and making decisions about budgeting, planning and future investments; •higher overhead and production costs as a percentage of revenue;18Table of Contents•tightening of credit markets needed to fund capital expenditures by our customers and us; •customer financial difficulty, including longer collection cycles and difficulties collecting accounts receivable or write-offs of receivables; and•increased risk of charges relating to excess and obsolete inventories and the write-off of other intangible assets. Reductions in customer spending in response to unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or with respect to a particular region where we operate, would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our reliance upon third party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk and could limit our sales, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships.We maintain a global sourcing strategy and depend on third party suppliers for support in our product design and development, and in the sourcing of key product components and subsystems. Our products include optical and electronic components for which reliable, high-volume supply is often available only from sole or limited sources. Increases in market demand or scarcity of resources or manufacturing capability have previously resulted in shortages in availability of important components for our solutions, allocation challenges and increased lead times. We are exposed to risks relating to unfavorable economic conditions or other similar challenges affecting the businesses and results of operations of our component providers that can affect their liquidity levels, ability to continue investing in their businesses, and manufacturing capability. These and other challenges affecting our suppliers could expose our business to increased costs, loss or lack of supply, or discontinuation of components that can result in lost revenue, additional product costs, increased lead times and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. We do not have any guarantees of supply from these third parties, and in certain cases are relying upon temporary or transitional commercial arrangements. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure the components or subsystems that we require, in sufficient quantity and quality on reasonable terms. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key components, could require that we locate an alternate source or redesign our products, either of which could result in business interruption, increase costs and negatively affect our product gross margin and results of operations. Our business and results of operations would be negatively affected if we were to experience any significant disruption or difficulties with key suppliers affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of required components.Investment of research and development resources in communications networking technologies for which there is not a matching market opportunity, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. We continually invest in research and development to sustain or enhance our existing hardware and software solutions and to develop or acquire new technologies. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing new or improved solutions to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the markets for our solutions, or those introduced by our competitors, may move in directions we had not anticipated. There is no guarantee that our new products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. There is a significant possibility, therefore, that some of our development decisions, including significant expenditures on acquisitions, research and development costs, or investments in technologies, will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in some projects will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we failed to invest, or invested too late, in a technology, product or enhancement sought by our customers. Changes in market demand or investment priorities may also cause us to discontinue existing or planned development for new products or features, which can have a disruptive effect on our relationships with customers. If we fail to make the right investments or fail to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer, and our revenue and profitability could be harmed. Network equipment sales to communications service providers, Web-scale providers and other large customers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition.Our sales initiatives, particularly with communications service providers, Web-scale providers and other large customers, often involve lengthy sales cycles. These selling efforts often involve a significant commitment of time and resources by us and our customers that may include extensive product testing, laboratory or network certification, network or region-specific product certification and homologation requirements for deployment in networks. Even after a customer awards its business or decides to purchase our solutions, the length of deployment time can vary depending upon the customer's or site's readiness, the size of the network deployment, the degree of configuration required and other factors. Additionally, these sales also often involve 19Table of Contentsprotracted and sometimes difficult contract negotiations in which we may deem it necessary to agree to unfavorable contractual or commercial terms that adversely affect pricing, expose us to penalties for delays or non-performance, and require us to assume a disproportionate amount of risk. We may also be requested to provide deferred payment terms, vendor or third-party financing or other alternative purchase structures that extend the timing of payment and revenue recognition. To maintain incumbency with key customers for existing and future business opportunities, we may be required to offer discounted pricing or offer less favorable commercial terms as compared to our historical business arrangements with these customers. By way of example, our commercial arrangement with AT&T relating to its Domain 2.0 vendor program adversely impacted our revenue and gross margin in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, and is expected to have a proportionately lesser impact on our results in first quarter of fiscal 2015 and future quarterly periods. Our purchase agreements generally do not include minimum purchase commitments, and customers often have the right to modify, delay, reduce or cancel previous orders. These terms may negatively affect our revenue and results of operations and increase our susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. Alternatively, customers may insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest, and we may be unable to reach a commercial agreement. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential sales opportunities that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. We may experience delays in the development of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business.Our products are based on complex technology, and we can experience unanticipated delays in developing and manufacturing these solutions. Delays in these and other product development efforts may affect our reputation with customers, affect our ability to seize market opportunities and impact the timing and level of demand for our products. The development of new technologies may increase the complexity of supply chain management or require the acquisition, licensing or inter-working with the technology of third parties. As a result, each step in the development cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could adversely affect the cost-effective and timely development of our products. We may encounter delays relating to engineering development activities and software, design, sourcing and manufacture of critical components, and the development of prototypes. In addition, intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the release of these products. If we do not successfully develop products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Product performance problems and undetected errors affecting the performance, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations.The development and production of sophisticated hardware and software for communications network equipment is highly complex. Some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or when carrying traffic with other equipment, and software products may contain bugs that can interfere with expected operations. As a result, undetected defects or errors, and product quality, interoperability, reliability and performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. We have recently launched, and are in the process of launching, a number of new hardware and software platforms. Unanticipated product performance problems can relate to the design, manufacturing, installation, operation and interoperability of our products. Undetected errors can also arise as a result of defects in components, software or manufacturing, installation or maintenance services supplied by third parties, and technology acquired from or licensed by third parties. From time to time we have had to replace certain components, provide software remedies or other remediation in response to defects or bugs. There can be no assurance that such remediation would not have a material impact on our business. In addition, unanticipated security vulnerabilities relating to our products or the activities of our supply chain, including any actual or perceived exposure of our solutions to malicious software or cyber-attacks, would adversely affect our business and reputation. Product performance, reliability, security and quality problems can negatively affect our business, and may result in some or all of the following effects: •damage to our reputation, declining sales and order cancellations;•increased costs to remediate defects or replace products; •payment of liquidated damages, contractual or similar penalties, or other claims for performance failures or delays;•increased warranty expense or estimates resulting from higher failure rates, additional field service obligations or other rework costs related to defects;•increased inventory obsolescence;•costs and claims that may not be covered by liability insurance coverage or recoverable from third parties; and •delays in recognizing revenue or collecting accounts receivable.These and other consequences relating to undetected errors affecting the quality, reliability and security of our products could negatively affect our business and results of operations. 20Table of ContentsEfforts by us or by our strategic third party channel partners to sell our solutions into targeted geographic markets and customer segments may be unsuccessful. In order to sell our products into new geographic markets, diversify our customer base beyond our traditional customers and broaden the application for our solutions in communications networks, we continue to promote sales initiatives and foster strategic channel sales relationships, including the packet-optical resale element of our strategic relationship with Ericsson. Specifically, we are targeting sales opportunities with Web-scale providers, cloud infrastructure providers, enterprises, wireless operators, cable operators, submarine network operators, research and education institutions, and federal, state and local governments. We also seek to expand our geographic reach and increase market share in international markets, including Brazil, the Middle East and India. To succeed in some of these geographic markets and customer segments we believe that we need to leverage strategic sales channels and distribution arrangements successfully, and we expect these relationships to be an important part of our business. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits of these third party sales partners. In some cases we compete in certain business areas with our third party channel partners or may have divergent interests. Our efforts to manage and drive the intended benefits of such sales relationships may ultimately be unsuccessful, and difficulties selling through our third party channels could limit our growth and could harm our results of operations. The international scale of our sales and operations exposes us to additional risk and expense that could adversely affect our results of operations.We market, sell and service our products globally, maintain personnel in numerous countries and rely upon a global supply chain for sourcing important components and manufacturing our products. Our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: •the impact of economic conditions in countries outside the United States; •effects of changes in currency exchange rates;•greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •difficulty and cost of staffing and managing foreign operations; •less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •adverse tax and customs consequences, particularly as related to transfer-pricing issues; •social, political and economic instability;•compliance with certain testing, homologation or customization of products to conform to local standards;•higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices that could expose us to liability or damage our reputation;•trade protection measures, export compliance, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and •natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism. Our international operations are also subject to complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, antitrust or competition laws, and data privacy laws, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in certain geographies, and significant harm to our business reputation. There can be no assurance that any individual employee, contractor, agent or other business partner will not violate these legal requirements or our policies to mitigate these risks. Additionally, the costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of investigations, auditing and monitoring) could also adversely affect our current or future business. We expect that we may enter new international markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. The success of our international sales and operations will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales, and could give rise to liabilities, costs or other business difficulties that could adversely affect our operations and financial results.We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the obsolescence of product lines or unfavorable market conditions.To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and component suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand. During fiscal 2014, we increased inventory levels for our 6500 Packet Optical Platform in order to reduce customer lead times and meet forecasted volumes. Our practice of buying inventory based on forecasted demand exposes us to the risk that our customers ultimately may not order the products we have forecast, or will purchase fewer products than forecast. As a result, we may purchase inventory in anticipation of sales that ultimately do not occur. Market uncertainty can also limit our visibility into customer spending plans and compound the difficulty of forecasting inventory at appropriate levels. Moreover, our customer purchase agreements generally do not include any minimum purchase 21Table of Contentscommitment, and customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. As features and functionalities converge across our product lines, and we introduce new products with overlapping feature sets, it is increasingly possible that customers may forgo purchases of certain products we have inventoried in favor of next-generation products with similar or increased functionality. We may also be exposed to the risk of inventory write offs as a result of certain supply chain initiatives, including consolidation and transfer of key manufacturing activities. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory, our results of operations for the applicable period would be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce.We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our products and technology. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.We are subject to the risk that third parties may attempt to access, divert or use our intellectual property without authorization. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, technology and other proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of such unauthorized use. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management time and resources, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain a successful result. Any inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, could harm our ability to compete effectively.We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights.From time to time third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our business. The rate of infringement assertions by patent assertion entities is increasing, particularly in the United States. Generally, these patent owners neither manufacture nor use the patented invention directly, and they simply seek to derive value from their ownership through royalties from patent licensing programs.We could be adversely affected by litigation, other proceedings or claims against us, as well as claims against our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights by our products and technology, or components thereof. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, divert the time and attention of our technical and management personnel, and result in costly litigation. These claims, if successful, could require us to: •pay substantial damages or royalties; •comply with an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain of our products; •seek a license for the use of certain intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; •develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful; and •indemnify our customers or other third parties pursuant to contractual obligations to hold them harmless or pay expenses or damages on their behalf. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology and the steps taken to safeguard against the risks of infringing the rights of third parties.Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties, and our business would be adversely affected if this technology were no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms.We integrate third party software and other technology into our operating system, network management and control platforms and other products. As networks adopt open software control and virtualized network functions, we believe that we will be increasingly required to work with third party technology providers. As a result, we may be required to license certain software or technology from third parties, including competitors. Licenses for software or other technology may not be available or may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Third party licensors may insist on unreasonable financial or other terms in connection with our use of such technology. Our failure to comply with the terms of any license may 22Table of Contentsresult in our inability to continue to use such license, which may result in significant costs, harm our market opportunities and require us to obtain or develop a substitute technology. As networks become more open and software programmable, we also expect that we and other communications networking solutions vendors will increasingly contribute to and use technology or open source software developed by standards settings bodies or other industry forums that seek to promote the integration of network layers and functions. The terms of such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. This may increase our risks associated with our use of such software and may require us to seek licenses from third parties, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of such solutions. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining technology licenses with third parties may disrupt development of our products, increase our costs and adversely affect our business.If our contract manufacturers do not perform as we expect, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.We rely on third-party contract manufacturers to perform the manufacturing of our products, and our future success will depend on our ability to manage these manufacturing resources and ensure sufficient volumes and quality of our products. There are a number of risks associated with our dependence on contract manufacturers, including:•reduced control over delivery schedules and planning;•reliance on the quality assurance procedures of third parties;•potential uncertainty regarding manufacturing yields and costs;•availability of manufacturing capability and capacity, particularly during periods of high demand;•risks and uncertainties relating to the locations and geographies of our international contract manufacturing sites;•limited warranties provided to us;•potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and•potential manufacturing disruptions, including disruptions caused by geopolitical events or environmental factors affecting the locations and geographies of our international contract manufacturing sites.These and other risks could impair our ability to fulfill orders, harm our sales and impact our reputation with customers. If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products or components of our products, or if our contract manufacturers discontinue operations, we would be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which could cause us to be unable to meet our supply requirements to our customers and result in the breach of our customer agreements. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming, and if we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, we would likely lose sales revenue and damage our existing customer relationships.Data security breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we maintain on our network systems certain information that is confidential, proprietary or otherwise sensitive in nature. This information includes intellectual property, financial information and confidential business information relating to Ciena and our customers, suppliers and other business partners. We also produce networking equipment solutions and software used by network operators to ensure security and reliability in their management and transmission of data. Our customers, particularly those in regulated industries, are increasingly focused on the security features of our technology solutions, and maintaining the security of information sensitive to Ciena and our business partners is critical to our business and reputation. Companies in the technology industry have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to networks or sensitive information. Our network systems and storage applications, and the technology solutions that we offer to end customers, may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused thereby. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a business partner, the market perception of our products could be harmed. While we continually work to safeguard our products and internal network systems to mitigate these potential risks, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber attacks or security breaches. Security incidents involving access or improper use our systems, networks or products could compromise confidential or otherwise protected information, destroy or corrupt data, or otherwise disrupt our operations. These security events could also negatively impact our reputation and our competitive position and could result in litigation with third parties, regulatory action, loss of business, potential liability and increased remediation costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23Table of ContentsOur failure to manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers.We rely on a number of third party service partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon these partners for certain installation, maintenance and support functions. In addition, as network operators seek to increasingly rely on vendors to perform additional services relating to the design, construction and operation of their networks, the scope of work performed by our support partners is likely to increase and may include areas where we have less experience providing or managing such services. We must successfully identify, assess, train and certify qualified service partners in order to ensure the proper installation, deployment and maintenance of our products, as well as the skillful performance of other services associated with expanded solutions offerings, including site assessment and construction-related services. Vetting and certification of these partners can be costly and time-consuming, and certain partners may not have the same operational history, financial resource and scale as Ciena. Moreover, certain service partners may provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to manage effectively our relationships with our service partners, and we cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required or that we will be able to maintain the continuity of their services. We may also be exposed to a number of risks or challenges relating to the performance of our service partners, including: •we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue;•we may be exposed to liability for injuries to persons, damage to property or other claims relating to the actions or omissions of our service partners; •our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and•our relationships with customers could suffer. If we do not manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners, or if they fail to perform these services in the manner or time required, our financial results and relationships with customers could be adversely affected.We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies.We have entered into agreements with strategic supply partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We may rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies, diversify our product portfolio, or address a particular customer or geographic market. We may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resale or similar strategic arrangements in the future. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third party products. Our third party relationships could expose us to risks associated with the business, financial condition, intellectual property rights and supply chain continuity of such partners, as well as delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, indemnity, service and other commercial obligations, including potential liability to customers, greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by our technology partners. Some of our strategic supply partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to these risks could harm our reputation with key customers and could negatively affect our business and our results of operations.Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In the course of our sales to customers and resale channel partners, we may have difficulty collecting receivables, and our business and results of operations could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. Lack of liquidity in the capital markets, macroeconomic weakness and market volatility may increase our exposure to these credit risks. Our attempts to monitor customer payment capability and to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves may not be sufficient, and it is possible that we may have to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems, and modification or interruption of such systems or external factors may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.We rely upon a number of internal business processes and information systems to support key business functions, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical to managing our business. Our business processes and information 24Table of Contentssystems must be sufficiently scalable to support the growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. We have commenced a significant reengineering of our company-wide enterprise resource planning platform that will impact multiple locations, functions and processes. We are also currently pursuing initiatives to transform and optimize our business operations through the reengineering of certain other processes, investment in automation, and engagement of strategic partners or resources to assist with certain business functions. These changes will require a significant investment of capital and human resources and may be costly and disruptive to our operations, and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require changes in our information systems, modification of internal control procedures and significant training of employees or third party resources. There can be no assurance that our business and operations will not experience disruption in connection with this transition. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects or disruption in our business, the design and implementation of these new systems may be more costly than anticipated. Our information technology systems, and those of third party information technology providers or business partners, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control, including catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, viruses or malware, and computer system or network failures. We may also be exposed to cyber-security related incidents, including unauthorized access of information systems and disclosure or diversion of intellectual property or confidential data. There can be no assurance that our business systems or those of our third party business partners would not be subject to similar incidents, exposing us to significant cost, reputational harm and disruption or damage to our business. Outstanding indebtedness under our convertible notes and senior secured credit facilities may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business. At October 31, 2014, indebtedness on our outstanding convertible notes totaled approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal, including the accretion of principal at maturity on our 4.0% convertible senior notes due in 2020 ("2020 Notes"). In the event that some or all of these notes are converted into common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and any sales of such shares in the public market following conversion may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. We are also a party to credit agreements relating to a $200 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and a $250 million senior secured term loan. The agreements governing these credit facilities contain certain covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, create liens and encumbrances, pay cash dividends, redeem or repurchase stock, enter into certain acquisition transactions or transactions with affiliates, repay certain indebtedness, make investments or dispose of assets. The agreements also include customary remedies, including the right of the lenders to take action with respect to the collateral securing the loans, that would apply should we default or otherwise be unable to satisfy our debt obligations. Our indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly in unfavorable capital and credit market conditions;•debt service and repayment obligations that may adversely impact our results of operations and reduce the availability of cash resources for other business purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets; and•placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may also enter into additional transactions or credit facilities, including equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long-term debt, which may increase our indebtedness and result in additional restrictions upon our business. In addition, major debt rating agencies regularly evaluate our debt based on a number of factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing debt ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets.Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding on favorable terms or at all. The operation of our business requires significant capital. We have accessed the capital markets in the past and has successfully raised funds, including through the issuance of equity, convertible notes and other indebtedness, to increase our cash position, support our operations and undertake strategic growth initiatives. We regularly evaluate our liquidity position, debt obligations, and anticipated cash needs to fund our long-term operating plans and may consider it necessary or advisable to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we raise additional funds through further issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, or undertake certain transactions intended to address our existing indebtedness, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of our company and our leverage and outstanding indebtedness 25Table of Contentscould increase. Global capital markets have undergone periods of significant volatility and uncertainty in recent years, and there can be no assurance that such financing alternatives would be available to us on favorable terms or at all, should we determine it necessary or advisable to seek additional cash resources. Facilities transitions could be disruptive to our operations and may result in unanticipated expense and adverse effects to our cash position and cash flows. We have recently undertaken and expect to undertake in the future a number of significant facilities transitions affecting a number of our largest employee populations. The lease term for our “Lab 10” building on the Carling Campus in Ottawa, Canada will expire in fiscal 2018, and the lease term for our development facility in Gurgaon, India will expire in fiscal 2017. Both locations house sophisticated research and development lab equipment and significant headcount including key engineering personnel. We will be transitioning our operations in Ottawa to new facilities in contemplation of the expiration of the Lab 10 lease. Relocating our engineering operations may be costly, and there can be no assurance that the transition of key engineering functions to a successor facility will not be disruptive or adversely affect productivity. Significant facilities transitions could be disruptive to our operations and may result in unanticipated expense and adverse effects on our cash position and cash flows. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations.We have previously taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations, improve efficiencies, or realign our organization and staffing to better match our market opportunities and our technology development initiatives. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, optimize our operations to achieve our target operating model and profitability objectives, or better reflect changes in the strategic direction of our business. These changes could be disruptive to our business, including our research and development efforts, and could result in significant expense, including accounting charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations and use of cash in those periods in which we undertake such actions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively.Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical, engineering and other personnel with experience in our industry is intense, and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. Competition is particularly intense in certain jurisdictions where we have research and development centers, including the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, and we may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. Because we rely upon equity awards as a significant component of compensation, particularly for our executive team, a lack of positive performance in our stock price, reduced grant levels, or changes to our compensation program may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. In addition, none of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of members of our management team or other key personnel could be disruptive to our business, and, were it necessary, it could be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, and our operations and results of operations could suffer. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Due to our increased global presence, a larger percentage of our revenue, operating expense and assets and liabilities are non-U.S. dollar denominated and therefore subject to foreign currency fluctuation. We face exposure to currency exchange rates as a result of the growth in our non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense in Canada, Europe, Asia and Latin America. From time to time, we may hedge against currency exposure associated with anticipated foreign currency cash flows or assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency. Such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances. Losses associated with these hedging instruments and the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may negatively affect our results of operations.Strategic acquisitions and investments could disrupt our operations and may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make investments in other technology companies, or enter into other strategic relationships, to expand the markets we address, diversify our customer base or acquire, or accelerate the development of, technology or products. To do 26Table of Contentsso, we may use cash, issue equity that could dilute our current stockholders, or incur debt or assume indebtedness. These transactions involve numerous risks, including:•significant acquisition and integration costs;•disruption due to the integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel; •diversion of management attention; •difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; •difficulty managing customer transitions or entering into new markets;•loss of key employees;•ineffective internal controls over financial reporting;•dependence on unfamiliar suppliers or manufacturers; •assumption of or exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims; and•adverse tax or accounting effects including amortization expense related to intangible assets and charges associated with impairment of goodwill.As a result of these and other risks, our acquisitions, investments or strategic transactions may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Changes in government regulation affecting the communications industry and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry, and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our largest customers, including service providers and multiservice network operators, are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies. The FCC is currently considering its "net neutrality" rulemaking and the application of its regulatory authority over broadband Internet services. These and other changes in regulatory requirements covering access to or carriage of traffic on the Internet in the United States or other countries could serve as a disincentive to certain wireline or wireless network operators, including certain of our customers, to invest in their network infrastructures or introduce new services. These changes could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. Similarly, changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Government regulations affecting the use, import or export of products could adversely affect our operations, negatively affect our revenue and increase our costs. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, license requirements and other restrictions on the usage, import or export of some of the technologies that we sell. Government regulation of usage, import or export of our products, or our technology within our products, or our failure to obtain required approvals for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenue and costs of sales. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties or restrictions on export privileges. In addition, costly tariffs on our equipment, restrictions on importation, trade protection measures and domestic preference requirements of certain countries could limit our access to these markets and harm our sales. For example, India's government has implemented security regulations applicable to network equipment vendors, and has previously imposed significant tariffs on certain communications equipment. These and other regulations could adversely affect the sale or use of our products, substantially increase our cost of sales and adversely affect our business and revenue.Government regulations related to the environment, potential climate change and other social initiatives could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change. If we were to violate or become liable under these laws or regulations, we could incur fines, costs related to damage to property or personal injury, and costs related to investigation or remediation activities. Our product design efforts and the manufacturing of our products are also subject to evolving requirements relating to the presence of certain materials or substances in our equipment, including regulations that make producers for such products financially responsible for the collection, treatment and recycling of certain products. For example, our operations and financial results may be negatively affected by environmental regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) that have been adopted by the European Union. Compliance with these and similar environmental regulations may increase our cost of designing, manufacturing, selling and removing our products. The SEC has adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from 27Table of Contentsthe Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (“DRC”) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals from the DRC. Certain of these minerals are present in our products. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC “conflict free” components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the "conflict minerals” used in our products and cannot assert that our products are "conflict free". Environmental or similar social initiatives may also make it difficult to obtain supply of compliant components or may require us to write off non-compliant inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.We may be required to write down long-lived assets, and these impairment charges would adversely affect our operating results. As of October 31, 2014, our balance sheet includes $309.4 million in long-lived assets, which includes $128.7 million of intangible assets. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows upon which our estimates are based. Periods of significant uncertainty or instability of macroeconomic conditions can make forecasting future business difficult. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results would be materially adversely affected in such period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Certain ongoing initiatives, including a significant update of our company-wide enterprise resource planning platform that is underway, will necessitate modifications to our internal control systems, processes and related information systems. Similarly, other efforts to transform business processes, including our supply chain operations, or to transition certain functions to third party resources or providers, will require further changes to our control environment as we as we optimize our business and operations. Our expansion into new regions could pose further challenges to our internal control systems. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, or any additional changes to be made, will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer. Our stock price is volatile.Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. During fiscal 2014, our closing stock price ranged from a high of $26.20 per share to a low of $14.16 per share. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuation that has affected the market price of many technology companies, with such volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts, or the expectations of the market generally, can cause significant swings in our stock price. Our stock price can also be affected by market conditions in our industry as well as announcements that we, our competitors, vendors or our customers may make. These may include announcements of financial results or changes in estimated financial results, technological innovations, the gain or loss of customers or key opportunities. Our common stock is also included in certain market indices, and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company would adversely affect our stock price. These and other factors affecting macroeconomic conditions or financial markets may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.28Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.