Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. The markets in which we compete for sales of networking equipment, software and services are extremely competitive, particularly the market for sales to telecommunications service providers. Competition in these markets is based on any one or a combination of the following factors: price, functionality, manufacturing capability, installation, services, existing business and customer relationships, scalability and the ability of products and services to meet the immediate and future network requirements of customers. A small number of very large companies have historically dominated the communications networking equipment industry. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity and better established relationships with telecommunications carriers and other potential customers than we. Recent consolidation activity among large networking equipment providers has the effect of causing our competitors to grow even larger and more powerful, magnifying their strategic advantages. On November 30, 2006, Alcatel completed its acquisition of Lucent. In June 2006, Nokia and Siemens agreed to combine their communications service provider businesses to create a new joint venture, and in January 2006, Ericsson completed its acquisition of certain key assets of Marconi Corporation plc’s telecommunications business. These mergers may adversely affect our competitive position by causing our competitors to grow larger and increasing their resources. We also compete with low-cost producers that can influence pricing pressure and a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, customer segment or geographic market. These competitors often base their products on the latest available technologies. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly and may be more attractive to customers. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics, including: • intense price competition, particularly from competitors in Asia; • early announcements of competing products and extensive marketing efforts; • “one-stop shopping” options; • competitors offering to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; • customer financing assistance; • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property assertions and disputes. The tactics described above can be particularly effective in an increasingly concentrated base of potential customers such as telecommunications service providers. Our inability to compete successfully in our markets would harm our sales and our ability to maintain profitability. Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our revenue can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of revenue is difficult and takes time. Consequently, if our revenue declines, our levels of inventory, operating expense and general overhead would be high relative to revenue, resulting in additional operating losses. Other factors contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, including: • the level of demand for our products and the timing and size of customer orders, particularly from telecommunications service provider customers; • satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria and related revenue recognition requirements; 12 • delays, changes to or cancellation of orders from customers; • the availability of an adequate supply of components and sufficient manufacturing capacity; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • readiness of customer sites for installation; and • changes in general economic conditions as well as those specific to our market segments. Many of these factors are beyond our control, particularly in the case of large carrier orders and multi-vendor or multi-technology network builds where the achievement of certain performance thresholds for acceptance is subject to the readiness and performance of the customer or other providers and changes in customer requirements or installation plans. Any one or a combination of the factors above may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our revenue and operating results for a particular quarter may be difficult to predict and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results likely in future periods. Our gross margin may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our product gross margin may be adversely affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our gross margin fluctuates from period to period and our product gross margin may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • increased price competition; • the mix in any period of higher and lower margin products and services; • sales volume during the period; • charges for excess or obsolete inventory; • changes in the price or availability of components for our products; • our ability to continue to reduce product manufacturing costs; • introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher production costs; and • increased warranty or repair costs. The factors discussed above regarding fluctuations in revenue and operating results can also affect gross margin. We expect product gross margin to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our gross margin for a particular quarter may be difficult to predict and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results likely in future periods. A small number of our telecommunication service provider customers accounted for a significant portion of our revenue in fiscal 2006. The loss of one or more of these customers, reductions in spending or changes affecting the market for telecommunications service providers generally, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2006, Sprint, Verizon and AT&T accounted for 40.2% of our revenue in the aggregate. Our concentration in revenue increased during fiscal 2006 largely due to the effect of mergers among some of our significant customers. The industry has experienced substantial consolidation recently, including the merger of Verizon and MCI, and the combination of SBC, AT&T and BellSouth, all of which have been significant customers during prior periods. These mergers have the effect of further reducing the number of potential communications service provider customers seeking to purchase networking equipment from vendors, thereby concentrating customer purchasing power. Moreover, these mergers may result in delays in, or the curtailment of, network investments. If consolidation among telecommunications carriers continues to increase, we may be subject to additional concentration of revenue, pricing pressure and quarterly fluctuation in revenue. 13 While we continue to diversify into new customer markets, a significant majority of our revenue is concentrated in our traditional customer market of telecommunications service providers. Our concentration of revenue in this customer market exposes us to significant risks associated with a market wide change in business prospects, competitive pressures or other conditions affecting telecommunications carriers. The telecommunications industry has undergone significant changes in recent years and service providers have experienced increased competition from within and outside their market. These pressures are likely to continue to cause telecommunications service providers to seek to minimize the costs of the equipment that they buy and may cause static or reduced capital expenditures. These competitive pressures may also result in pricing becoming a more important factor in customer purchasing decisions. Increased focus on pricing may favor low-cost vendors and larger competitors that can spread the effect of price discounts across a broader offering of products and services and across a larger customer base. The loss of one or more large customers, a significant reduction in spending by such customers, or a change negatively affecting the business prospects of the telecommunications industry, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Network equipment sales to large communications service providers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume terms or conditions that negatively affect our pricing, payment and timing of revenue recognition. In recent years we have sought to add large communication service providers as customers for our products, software and services. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain and expand our sales to existing customers and add new customers. Many of our competitors have long-standing relationships with communications service providers, which can pose significant obstacles to our sales efforts. Sales to large communications service providers typically involve lengthy sales cycles, protracted or difficult contract negotiations, and extensive product testing and network certification. We are sometimes required to assume terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, payment and the timing of revenue recognition in order to consummate a sale. This may negatively affect the timing of revenue recognition, which would, in turn, negatively affect our results of operations. Communications service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest. Moreover, our customers are typically not contractually obligated to purchase a certain amount of products or services from us and often have the right to reduce, delay or even cancel previous orders. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses and devote time and resources to potential relationships that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. We may invest development resources in products or technologies for which market demand is lower than anticipated. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. To succeed in this market, we must continue to invest in research and development to enhance our existing products and create new ones. There is often a significant time between beginning a new development initiative and bringing the new or revised product to market, and during this time technology or the market may move in directions we did not anticipate. There is a significant probability, therefore, that at least some of our development decisions will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in a project will be unprofitable. Changes in the market may also cause us to discontinue previously planned investments in products, which can have a disruptive effect on relationships with customers that were anticipating the availability of a new product or feature. Product development investment decisions are difficult and there is no assurance that we will be successful. If we fail to make prudent research and development investments, our competitive position may suffer and the growth of our business and revenues could be harmed. Product performance problems could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. The development and production of new products, and enhancements to existing products, are complicated and often involve problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. Due to the complexity of these products, some of them can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or with other equipment. We have introduced new or upgraded products in recent quarters and expect to continue to enhance and extend our product portfolio. Product performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. Modifying our products to enable customers to integrate them into a new type of network architecture entails similar risks. If significant reliability, quality, or network monitoring problems develop as a result of our product development, manufacturing or integration, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including: • increased costs associated with addressing software or hardware defects, including service and warranty expenses; 14 • payment of liquidated damages for performance failures or delays; • high inventory obsolescence expense; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • cancellation or reduction in orders from customers; and • damage to our reputation or legal actions by customers or end users. Because we outsource manufacturing to contract manufacturers and use a direct order fulfillment model for certain of our products, we may be subject to product performance problems resulting from the acts or omissions of these third parties. These product performance problems could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory. In recent years, we have placed the majority of our orders to manufacture components or complete assemblies for many of our products only when we have firm orders from our customers. Because this practice can result in delays in the delivery of products to customers and place us at a competitive disadvantage, we now order equipment and components from our contract manufacturers and suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand across all of our products. We believe this change is necessary in response to increased customer insistence upon shortened delivery terms. This change in our inventory purchases exposes us to the risk that our customers will not order those products for which we have forecasted sales, or will purchase fewer than the number of products we have forecasted. Our purchase agreements generally do not require that a customer guarantee any minimum purchase level and customers often may modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. As a result we may purchase inventory based on forecasted sales and in anticipation of purchases that never come to fruition. In such cases, we may be required to write off inventory. We may also be required to write off inventory as a result of the effect of environmental regulations such as the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS), adopted by the European Union. As a result of previous component purchases that we based on forecasted sales, we currently hold inventory that includes non-compliant components. If we are unable to locate alternate demand for these non-compliant components outside of the European Union, we may be required to write off or write down this inventory. If we are required to write off, or write down inventory, it may result in an accounting charge that could materially affect our results of operations for the quarter in which such charge occurs. Continued shortages in component supply or manufacturing capacity could increase our costs, adversely affect our results of operations and constrain our ability to grow our business. As we have expanded our product portfolio, increased our use of contract manufacturers and increased our product sales in recent years manufacturing capacity and supply constraints related to components and subsystems have become increasingly significant issues for us. We have encountered and continue to experience component shortages that have affected our operations and ability to deliver products to customers in a timely manner. Growth in customer demand for the communications networking products supplied by us, our competitors and other third parties, has resulted in supply constraints among providers of some components used in our products. In addition, environmental regulations, such as the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS) adopted by the European Union, have resulted in increased demand for compliant components from suppliers. As a result, we may experience delays or difficulty obtaining compliant components from suppliers. Component shortages and manufacturing capacity constraints may also arise, or be exacerbated by difficulties with our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or our failure to adequately forecast our component or manufacturing needs. If shortages or delays persist or worsen, the price of required components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. If we are unable to secure the components or subsystems that we require at reasonable prices, or are unable to secure manufacturing capacity adequate to meet our needs, we may experience delivery delays and may be unable to satisfy our contractual obligations to customers. These delays may cause us to incur liquidated damages to customers and negatively affect our revenue and gross margin. Shortages in component supply or manufacturing capacity could also limit our opportunities to pursue additional growth or revenue opportunities and could harm our business reputation and customer relationships. We may not be successful in selling our products into new markets and developing and managing new sales channels. We continue to take steps to sell our expanded product portfolio into new geographic markets and to a broader customer base, including enterprises, cable operators, and federal, state and local governments. We have less experience in these 15 markets and believe, in order to succeed in these markets, we must develop and manage new sales channels and distribution arrangements. We expect these relationships to be an increasingly important part of the growth of our business and our efforts to increase revenue. Because we have only limited experience in developing and managing such channels, we may not be successful in reaching additional customer segments, expanding into new geographic regions, or reducing the financial risks of entering new markets and pursuing new customer segments. We may expend time, money and other resources on channel relationships that are ultimately unsuccessful. In addition, sales to federal, state and local governments require compliance with complex procurement regulations with which we have little experience. We may be unable to increase our sales to government contractors if we determine that we cannot comply with applicable regulations. Our failure to comply with regulations for existing contracts could result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines and suspension or debarment from federal government contracts. Failure to manage additional sales channels effectively would limit our ability to succeed in these new markets and could adversely affect our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. We may experience delays in the development and enhancement of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. Because our products are based on complex technology, we can experience unanticipated delays in developing, improving, manufacturing or deploying them. Each step in the development life cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could decrease the timing and cost-effective development of such product and could affect customer acceptance of the product. Unexpected intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and a host of other execution risks may delay or even prevent the introduction of these products. Our development efforts may also be affected, particularly in the near term, by our decision to restructure development functions around technology sets rather than product lines or location-specific development. In addition, we expect to increase hiring of personnel for our development facility in India and expand research and development activity. Modification of research and development strategies and changes in allocation of resources could be disruptive to our development efforts. If we do not develop and successfully introduce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We must manage our relationships with contract manufacturers to ensure that our product requirements are met timely and effectively. We rely on contract manufacturers to perform the majority of the manufacturing operations for our products and components and we are increasingly utilizing overseas suppliers, particularly in Asia. The qualification of our contract manufacturers is a costly and time-consuming process, and these manufacturers build product for other companies, including our competitors. We are constantly reviewing our manufacturing capability, including the work of our contract manufacturers to ensure that our production requirements are met in terms of cost, capacity, quality and reliability. From time to time, we may decide to transfer the manufacturing of a product from one contract manufacturer to another, to better meet our production needs. Efforts to transfer to a new contract manufacturer or consolidate our use of suppliers may result in temporary increases in inventory volumes purchased in order to ensure continued supply. It is possible that we may not effectively manage these contract manufacturer transitions. Moreover, new contract manufacturers may not perform as well as expected. As a result, we experience risks associated with lead times, on time delivery and quality assurance that could harm our business. In addition, we do not have contracts in place with some of these providers and do not have guaranteed supply of components or manufacturing capacity. Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers, particularly overseas, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and for some items we do not have a substitute supplier. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our product components and subsystems, as well as for equipment used to manufacture and test our products. Our products include several components for which reliable, high-volume suppliers are particularly limited. Some key optical and electronic components we use in our products are currently available only from sole or limited sources, and in some cases, that source also is a competitor. As a result of this concentration in our supply chain, particularly for optical components, our business and operations would be negatively affected if our suppliers were to experience any significant disruption affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of components. The loss of a source of key components could require us to re-engineer products that use those components, which would increase our costs and negatively affect our product gross margin. The partial or complete loss of a sole or limited source supplier could result in lost revenue, added costs and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. 16 Our failure to manage our relationships with service delivery partners effectively could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers. We rely on a number of service delivery partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We expect to increasingly rely upon third party service delivery partners for the installation of our equipment in larger network builds, which often include more onerous installation, testing and acceptance terms. In order to ensure that we timely install our products and satisfy obligations to our customers, we must identify, train and certify additional appropriate partners. The certification of these partners can be costly and time-consuming, and these partners service products for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to effectively manage our relationships with our partners and we cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver our services in the manner or time required. If our service partners are unsuccessful in delivering services: • we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue in cases where revenue recognition is dependent upon product installation, testing and acceptance; • our services revenue may be adversely affected; and • our relationship with customers could suffer. We may incur significant costs and our competitive position may suffer as a result of our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or respond to claims of infringement from others. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. This is likely to become an increasingly important issue as we expand our product development into India and the manufacture of products and components to contract manufacturers in Asia. These and other international operations could expose us to a lower level of intellectual property protection than in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. In recent years, we have filed suit to enforce our intellectual property rights. From time to time we have also been subject to litigation and other third party intellectual property claims, including as a result of our indemnification obligations to customers or resellers that purchase our products. The frequency of these assertions is increasing as patent holders, including entities that are not in our industry and that purchase patents as an investment or to monetize such rights by obtaining royalties, use infringement assertions as a competitive tactic and a source of additional revenue. Intellectual property claims can significantly divert the time and attention of our personnel and result in costly litigation. Intellectual property infringement claims can also require us to pay substantial royalties, enter into license agreements and/or develop non-infringing technology. Accordingly, the costs associated with third party intellectual property claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations could expose us to additional risks and result in increased operating expense. We market, sell and service our products globally. We have established offices around the world, including in North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. We have also established a development operation in India to pursue offshore development resources and are increasingly relying upon overseas suppliers, particularly in Asia, for materials sourcing of components and contract manufacturing of our products. We expect that our international activities will be dynamic during fiscal 2007, and we may enter new markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. These changes to our international operations will require significant management attention and financial resources. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements for international sales of our products could impact our ability to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. International operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 17 • adverse tax consequences; • social, political and economic instability; • trade protection measures, export compliance, qualification to transact business and other regulatory requirements; • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; and • natural disasters and epidemics. Our efforts to offshore certain development resources and operations to India may not be successful and may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have established a development operation in India and expect to increase hiring of personnel for this facility during fiscal 2007. We have limited experience in offshoring our business functions, particularly development operations, and there is no assurance that our plan will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, offshoring to India involves significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to increased competition for such resources; • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India; • currency exchange and tax risks associated with offshore operations; and • development efforts that do not meet our requirements because of language, cultural or other differences associated with international operations, resulting in errors or delays. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks associated with offshoring could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. Our efforts to offshore certain development resources to India could be disruptive to our business and may cause us to incur substantial unanticipated costs or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Industry and economic conditions have weakened the financial position of some of our customers. To sell to some of these customers, we may be required to take risks of uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales channel partners, as we intend to increasingly utilize such parties as we enter into new geographies, particularly in Europe. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Efforts to restructure our operations and align our resources with market opportunities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have taken several steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. We continue to make changes to our operations and allocation of resources in order to improve efficiency and match our resources with market opportunities. These changes could be disruptive to our business. In addition, our efforts in prior periods to reduce cost and improve efficiency have resulted in the recording of accounting charges. These include inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. If we are required to take a substantial charge related to restructuring efforts, our results of operations would be adversely affected in such period. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. 18 Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical and other personnel with experience in our industry is increasing in intensity and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. We may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. It may be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel, and the loss of such individuals could be disruptive to our business. Because we generally do not have employment contracts with our employees, we must rely upon providing competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment in order to retain and motivate employees. We have informed employees that we will not be issuing equity awards as broadly or at the same level as historical stock option grants. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. We may be required to assume warranty, service, development and other unexpected obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products of other companies. We have entered into agreements with strategic partners that permit us to distribute the products of other companies. As part of our strategy to diversify our product portfolio and customer base, we may enter into additional resale and original equipment manufacturer agreements in the future. To the extent we succeed in reselling the products of these companies, we may be required by customers to assume certain warranty, service and development obligations. While our suppliers often agree to support us with respect to these obligations, we may be required to extend greater protection in order to effect a sale. Moreover, some of the companies whose products we resell are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy these obligations, we may have to expend our own resources to do so. This risk is amplified because the equipment that we are selling has been designed and manufactured by other third parties and may be subject to warranty claims, the magnitude of which we are unable to evaluate fully. We may be required to assume warranty, service, development and other unexpected obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products of other companies. Strategic acquisitions and investments may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make strategic investments in other companies to add or expand the markets we address and diversify our customer base. We may also engage in these transactions to acquire or accelerate the development of products incorporating new technologies sought after by our customers. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that would dilute our current shareholders’ ownership, incur debt or assume indebtedness. Strategic investments and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention; • potential difficulties in completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • subsequent amortization expenses related to intangible assets and charges associated with impairment of goodwill; • ineffective internal controls over financial reporting for purposes of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • dependence on unfamiliar supply partners; and • exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims. As a result of these and other risks, any acquisitions or strategic investments may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We may be required to take further write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of October 31, 2006, we had $232.0 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. This amount primarily represents the remaining excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At October 31, 2006, we had $91.3 million of other intangible assets on our balance sheet. The amount primarily reflects purchased technology from our acquisitions. At October 31, 2006, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately 17.6% of our total assets. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $176.6 million and an impairment of other intangibles of $45.7 million. If we are required to record additional impairment 19 charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, such charges would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our earnings per share or net loss per share could be materially adversely affected in such period. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Historically, our primary exposure to currency exchange rates has been related to non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses in Europe, Asia and Canada where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. As we increase our international sales and utilization of international suppliers, we expect to transact additional business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we will be subject to the possibility of greater effects of foreign exchange translation on our financial statements. For those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales, a devaluation in the local currency would result in reduced revenue and operating profit and reduce the value of our local inventory presented in our financial statements. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make our products more expensive for customers to purchase or increase our operating costs, thereby adversely affecting our competitiveness. To date, we have not significantly hedged against foreign currency fluctuations; however, we may pursue hedging alternatives in the future. Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has not had an adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our revenue from international sales and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report, a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. We initially became subject to these requirements for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2005. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Growth of our business, including our broader product portfolio and increased transaction volume, will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and infrastructure, including our information systems. Our increasingly global operations, including our development facility in India and offices abroad, will pose additional challenges to our internal control systems as their operations become more significant. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, and any modifications necessary to reflect changes in our business, will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting), our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our information systems and upgrading these systems may result in disruption to our operating processes and internal controls. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on the successful operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to process financial information, manage inventory and administer our sales transactions. In an effort to improve the efficiency of our operations, achieve greater automation and support the growth of our business, we are in the process of upgrading certain information systems and expect to implement a new version of our Oracle management information system during fiscal 2007. As a result of these changes, we anticipate that we will have to modify a number of our operational processes and internal control procedures to conform to the work-flows of new or upgraded information systems. We will also have to undergo a process of validating the data in any new system to ensure its integrity and will need to train our personnel. We cannot assure you that these changes to our information systems will occur without some level of disruption of our operating processes and controls. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar problems with our information systems could negatively impact our business operations. Obligations associated with our outstanding indebtedness on our convertible notes may adversely affect our business. At October 31, 2006, indebtedness on our outstanding 3.75% Convertible Notes, due February 1, 2008 and 0.25% 20 Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2013 totaled $842.3 million in aggregate principal. Our indebtedness and repayment obligations could have important negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • reducing the availability of cash resources available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may also add additional indebtedness such as equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long term debt. Our repayment obligations associated with our convertible notes may adversely affect our business. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts, and announcements that we, our competitors, or our customers may make. Volatility in our common stock price and liquidity in our common stock may also be negatively affected by the one-for-seven reverse stock split of our common stock completed on September 22, 2006. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 