Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvesting in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter.Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our projections of future revenue and gross margin, and substantial reductions in expense can take time to implement. Uncertainty or lack of visibility into customer spending, and changes in economic or market conditions that affect customer spending, can make it difficult to forecast future revenue and margins. In addition, increases in the percentage of a given quarter's revenue generated from orders placed during that quarter, along with significant order volume late that quarter, could further result in variability and less predictability in our quarterly revenue and cash flow. Consequently, our level of operating expense or inventory may be high relative to revenue, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. Additional factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: •broader macroeconomic conditions, including weakness and volatility in global markets, that affect our customers; •changes in capital spending by large communications service providers;•order flow and backlog levels;•the timing of our ability to recognize revenue on sales;•the mix of revenue by product segment, geography and customer in any particular quarter;•the level of competition and pricing pressure we encounter; •seasonal effects in our business;•the level of start-up costs we incur to support initial deployments, gain new customers or enter new markets; and•our level of success in improving manufacturing efficiencies and achieving cost reductions in our supply chain. Quarterly fluctuations from these and other factors may cause our results of operations to fall short of or significantly exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause volatility in our stock price. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations.We face a competitive market for sales of communications networking equipment, software and services, and this level of competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced demand, lower gross margins and loss of market share that could harm our business and results of operations. Competition is particularly intense as we and our competitors aggressively seek to displace incumbent equipment vendors at large service providers and secure new customers. In an effort to secure customer opportunities and capture market share, we have in the past, and may in the future, agree to commercial terms or pricing that result in low or negative gross margins on a particular order or group of orders. We expect this level of competition to continue or potentially increase, as multinational equipment vendors seek to promote adoption of their network architectural approaches and retain incumbent positions with large customers around the world. We also expect our competitive landscape to broaden. As network technologies, features and layers converge and demands for software programmability of networks increases, we expect that our business will overlap more directly with additional networking suppliers, including IP router vendors, system integrators, software vendors and other information technology vendors.Competition in our markets, generally, is based on any one or a combination of the following factors: product features; functionality and performance; price; services offerings; manufacturing capability and lead-times; incumbency and existing business relationships; scalability and flexibility of products to meet the immediate and future network; and service requirements of network operators. A small number of very large companies have historically dominated our industry, many of which have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, broader product offerings and more established relationships with service providers and other customer segments than we do. In addition, a number of these vendors are putting forth competing visions for how next-generation network architectures should be designed. Because of their scale and resources, they may be perceived to be a better fit for the procurement, or network operating and management, strategies of large service providers. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly or may be more attractive to customers. If competitive pressures increase or we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our business and results of operations could suffer. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of capital expenditure by customers in response to these conditions. 18Table of ContentsOur business and operating results could be materially adversely affected by reduced customer spending in response to unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or with respect to a particular region where we operate. Broad macroeconomic weakness and market volatility have previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services that have adversely affected our operating results. Macroeconomic and market conditions could be adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors in the United States and elsewhere that could adversely affect spending levels, as well as create volatility or deteriorating conditions in the markets in which we operate. Continuation of, or an increase in, macroeconomic uncertainty or weakness could result in:•reductions in customer spending and delay, deferral or cancellation of network infrastructure initiatives; •increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities;•increased pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue, gross margin and profitability;•difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning; •higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;•tightening of credit markets needed to fund capital expenditures by our customers and us; •customer financial difficulty, including longer collection cycles and difficulties collecting accounts receivable or write-offs of receivables; and•increased risk of charges relating to excess and obsolete inventories and the write-off of other intangible assets. Reductions in customer spending in response to unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or with respect to a particular region where we operate, would adversely affect our business and results of operations.A small number of large communications service providers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among a few, large global communications service providers. By way of example, AT&T accounted for approximately 17.9% of fiscal 2013 revenue, and our largest ten customers contributed 59.4% of fiscal 2013 revenue. Consequently, our financial results are closely correlated with the spending of a relatively small number of service provider customers and can be significantly affected by market or industry changes that affect their businesses. These factors can include consumer and enterprise spending on communication services, macroeconomic volatility, the adoption of new communications products and services, the emergence of competing network operators and changing demands of end user customers. Because the terms of our framework contracts do not obligate customers to purchase any minimum or guaranteed order quantities, spending by these service providers can be unpredictable and sporadic, our revenue and operating results can fluctuate on a quarterly basis. Reliance upon a relatively small number of service providers increases our exposure to changes in their network and purchasing strategies. Some of our customers are pursuing efforts to outsource the management and operation of their networks, or have indicated a procurement strategy to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase equipment, which may benefit our larger competitors. Our concentration in revenue has increased in the past as a result of consolidation among a number of our largest customers. Consolidation may increase the likelihood of temporary or indefinite reductions in customer spending or changes in network strategy that could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more of our large service provider customers, a significant reduction in their spending, or market or industry factors adversely affecting service providers generally, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our reliance upon third party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk and could limit our sales, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships.We maintain a global sourcing strategy and depend on third party suppliers for support in our product design and development and the sourcing of key product components and subsystems. Our products include optical and electronic components for which reliable, high-volume supply is often available only from sole or limited sources. Increases in market demand or scarcity of resources or manufacturing capability have previously resulted in shortages in availability of important components for our solutions, allocation challenges and increased lead times. We are exposed to risks relating to unfavorable economic conditions or other similar challenges affecting the businesses of our component providers that can affect their liquidity levels, ability to continue investing in their businesses, and manufacturing capability. This could expose our business to increased costs, lack of supply or discontinuation of components that can result in lost revenue, additional product costs, increased lead times and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. We do not have any guarantee of supply from these third parties, and in certain cases are relying upon temporary or transitional commercial arrangements. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure the components or subsystems that we require, in sufficient quantity and quality on reasonable terms. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key 19Table of Contentscomponents, could require that we locate an alternate source or redesign our products, each of which could increase our costs and negatively affect our product gross margin and results of operations. Our business and results of operations would be negatively affected if we were to experience any significant disruption or difficulties with key suppliers affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of required components.Investment of research and development resources in communications networking technologies for which there is not a matching market opportunity, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. We continually invest in research and development to sustain or enhance our existing products and to develop or acquire new product technologies. Our current development efforts are focused upon enhancing our software and network-level applications, extending our OneConnect control plane across the 5400 and 6500 platform families, expanding packet applications on service delivery switches, aggregation switches, and coherent optical transport platforms, extending our WaveLogic chipset, enabling 40G and 100G coherent optical transport across our portfolio, and introducing 400G transmission products. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing new or improved products to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the market for our products, or those introduced by our competitors, may move in directions we had not anticipated. There is no guarantee that our new products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. There is a significant possibility, therefore, that some of our development decisions, including significant expenditures on acquisitions, research and development costs, or investments in technologies, will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in some projects will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we failed to invest, or invested too late, in a technology, product or enhancement sought by our customers. Changes in market demand or investment priorities may also cause us to discontinue existing or planned development for new products or features, which can have a disruptive effect on our relationships with customers. If we fail to make the right investments or fail to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be harmed. We may experience delays in the development of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business.Our products are based on complex technology, and we can experience unanticipated delays in developing and manufacturing these solutions. Our current development efforts are focused upon enhancing our software applications, extending our OneConnect control plane across the 5400 and 6500 platform families, expanding packet applications on service delivery switches, aggregation switches, and coherent optical transport platforms, extending our WaveLogic chipset for 40G and 100G coherent optical transport across our portfolio and introducing 400G transmission products. Delays in these and other product development efforts may affect our reputation with customers, affect our ability to seize market opportunities and impact the timing and level of demand for our products. Each step in the development life cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could adversely affect the cost-effective and timely development of our products. We may encounter delays relating to engineering development activities and software, design, sourcing and manufacture of critical components, and the development of prototypes. In addition, intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the release of these products. If we do not successfully develop products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Product performance problems and undetected errors affecting the performance, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations.The development and production of sophisticated hardware and software for communications network equipment is complicated. Some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or when carrying traffic with other equipment. As a result, undetected defects or errors, and product quality, interoperability, reliability and performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. We are in the process of launching a number of new platforms. Unanticipated product performance problems can relate to the design, manufacturing and installation of our products. Undetected errors can also arise as a result of defects in components, software or manufacturing, installation or maintenance services supplied by third parties, and technology acquired from or licensed by third parties. Unanticipated security vulnerabilities relating to our products or the activities of our supply chain, including any actual or perceived exposure of our solutions to malicious software or cyber-attacks, would adversely affect our business and reputation. Product performance, reliability, security and quality problems can negatively affect our business, including through: •damage to our reputation, declining sales and order cancellations;20Table of Contents•increased costs to remediate defects or replace products; •payment of liquidated damages, contractual or similar penalties, or other claims for performance failures or delays;•increased warranty expense or estimates resulting from higher failure rates, additional field service obligations or other rework costs related to defects;•increased inventory obsolescence;•costs and claims that may not be covered by liability insurance coverage or recoverable from third parties; and •delays in recognizing revenue or collecting accounts receivable.These and other consequences relating to undetected errors affecting the quality, reliability and security of our products could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Network equipment sales to large communications service providers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition.A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to large communications service providers. These sales typically involve lengthy sales cycles, extensive product testing, and demonstration laboratory or network certification, including network-specific or region-specific product certification or homologation processes. These sales also often involve protracted and sometimes difficult contract negotiations in which we may deem it necessary to agree to unfavorable contractual or commercial terms that adversely affect pricing, expose us to penalties for delays or non-performance, and require us to assume a disproportionate amount of risk. We may also be requested to provide deferred payment terms, vendor or third-party financing, or offer other alternative purchase structures that extend the timing of payment and revenue recognition. Moreover, our purchase agreements generally do not include minimum purchase commitments, and customers often have the right to modify, delay, reduce or cancel previous orders. These terms may negatively affect our revenue and results of operations and increase our susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, service providers may insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest, and we may be unable to reach a commercial agreement. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential sales opportunities that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. Efforts by us or by our strategic third party channel partners to sell our solutions into targeted geographic markets and customer segments may be unsuccessful. We continue to take steps, including sales initiatives and strategic channel relationships, to sell our products into new markets, growth geographies and diverse customer segments beyond our traditional service provider customer base. Specifically, we are targeting opportunities in Brazil, the Middle East, Russia, Japan and India. We are also targeting sales opportunities with enterprises, wireless operators, cable operators, submarine network operators, content service providers, cloud infrastructure providers, research and education institutions, and federal, state and local governments. We believe sales to these customer segments, as well as emerging network operators supporting new communications services and applications, will be an important component of our growth strategy. In many cases, we have less experience in these markets and customer segments, and they may have less familiarity with our company. To succeed in some of these geographic markets and customer segments we have engaged or intend to leverage strategic sales channels and distribution arrangements and expect these relationships to be an important part of our business. Our efforts may be unsuccessful, and difficulties selling into these target markets, including through third party channels, could limit our growth and harm our results of operations. The international scale of our operations exposes us to additional risk and expense that could adversely affect our results of operations.We market, sell and service our products globally and rely upon a global supply chain for sourcing important components and manufacturing of our products. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, including: •the impact of economic conditions in countries outside the United States; •effects of changes in currency exchange rates;•greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •difficulty and cost of staffing and managing foreign operations; •less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •adverse tax and customs consequences, particularly as related to transfer-pricing issues; •social, political and economic instability;•higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices that could expose us to liability or damage our reputation;•trade protection measures, export compliance, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and 21Table of Contents•natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism. We expect that we may enter new international markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. Our global operations expose us to additional risk and expense that could give rise to unanticipated liabilities, costs or other difficulties that could adversely affect our operations and financial results.We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the obsolescence of product lines or unfavorable market conditions.To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and component suppliers based in part on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, our business is exposed to the risk that our customers ultimately may not order the products we have forecast, or will purchase fewer products than forecast. As features and functionalities converge across our product lines, and we introduce new products with overlapping feature sets, it is increasingly possible that customers may forgo purchases of one product we have inventoried in favor of another product with similar functionality. Market uncertainty can also limit our visibility into customer spending plans and compound the difficulty of forecasting inventory at appropriate levels. Moreover, our customer purchase agreements generally do not include any minimum purchase commitment, and customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. We may also be exposed to the risk of inventory write offs as a result of certain supply chain initiatives, including consolidation and transfer of key manufacturing activities. As a result, we may purchase inventory in anticipation of sales that ultimately do not occur. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory, our results of operations for the period would be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce.We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our products and technology. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.We are subject to the risk that third parties may attempt to access, divert or use our intellectual property without authorization. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, technology and other proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of such unauthorized use. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management time and resources, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain a successful result. Any inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, despite our efforts, could harm our ability to compete effectively.We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights.From time to time third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our business. The rate of infringement assertions by patent assertion entities is increasing, particularly in the United States. Generally, these patent owners neither manufacture nor use the patented invention directly, and simply seek to derive value from their ownership through royalties from patent licensing programs.We can be adversely affected by litigation, other proceedings or claims against us, as well as claims against our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights by our products and technology, or components thereof. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, divert the time and attention of our technical and management personnel, and result in costly litigation. These claims, if successful, can require us to: •pay substantial damages or royalties; •comply with an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain of our products; •seek a license for the use of certain intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; •develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful; and •indemnify our customers or other third parties pursuant to contractual obligations to hold them harmless or pay expenses or damages on their behalf. 22Table of ContentsAny of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology and the steps taken to safeguard against the risks of infringing the rights of third parties.Our failure to manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers.We rely on a number of third party service partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon these partners for certain installation, maintenance and support functions. In addition, as network operators seek to increasingly rely on vendors to perform additional services relating to the design, construction and operation of their networks, the scope of work performed by our support partners is likely to increase and may include areas where we have less experience providing or managing such services. We must successfully identify, assess, train and certify qualified service partners in order to ensure the proper installation, deployment and maintenance of our products, and the skillful performance of other services associated with expanded solutions offerings, including site assessment and construction related services. Vetting and certification of these partners can be costly and time-consuming, and certain partners may not have the same operational history, financial resource and scale as Ciena. Moreover, certain partners may provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to manage effectively our relationships with our service partners and cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required or that we will be able to maintain the continuity of their services. We may also be exposed to a number of risks or challenges relating to the performance of our service partners, including: •we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue;•we may be exposed to liability for injuries to persons, damage to property or other claims relating to the actions or omissions of our service partners; •our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and•our relationships with customers could suffer. If we do not manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners, or if they fail to perform these services in the manner or time required, our financial results and relationships with customers could be adversely affected.We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies.We have entered into agreements with strategic supply partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We may rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies, diversify our product portfolio, or address a particular customer or geographic market. We may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resale or similar strategic arrangements in the future. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third party products. Our third party relationships could expose us to risks associated with the business, financial condition, intellectual property rights and supply chain continuity of such partners, as well as delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, indemnity, service and other commercial obligations, including potential liability to customers, greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by our technology partners. Some of our strategic supply partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to these risks could harm our reputation with key customers and negatively affect our business and our results of operations.Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In the course of our sales to customers and resale channel partners, we may have difficulty collecting receivables and our business and results of operations could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. Lack of liquidity in the capital markets, macroeconomic weakness and market volatility may increase our exposure to these credit risks. Our attempts to monitor these situations carefully and take appropriate measures to protect ourselves may not be sufficient, and it is possible that we may have to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. 23Table of ContentsOur business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.We rely upon a number of internal business processes and information systems to support key business functions, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical to our business. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. We are currently pursuing initiatives to transform and optimize our business operations through the reengineering of certain processes, investment in automation and engagement of strategic partners or resources to assist with certain business functions. These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations, and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require changes in our information systems, modification of internal control procedures and significant training of employees or third party resources. There can be no assurance that our business and operations will not experience any disruption in connection with this transition. Our information technology systems, and those of third party information technology providers or business partners, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control, including catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, viruses or malware, and computer system or network failures. We may also be exposed to cyber-security related incidents, including unauthorized access of information systems and disclosure or diversion of intellectual property or confidential data. There can be no assurance that our business systems or those of our third party business partners would not be subject to similar incidents, exposing us to significant cost, reputational harm and disruption or damage to our business. Data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we maintain sensitive data on our networks, including our intellectual property and proprietary or confidential business information relating to our business and that of our customers and business partners. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation. Companies in the technology industry have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. Our network and storage applications may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused thereby. These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. Cyber-attacks could also cause us to incur significant remediation costs, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. These incidents could also subject us to liability, expose us to significant expense, and cause significant harm to our reputation and business. Outstanding indebtedness under our convertible notes may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business. At October 31, 2013, indebtedness on our outstanding convertible notes totaled approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal, including the accretion of principal at maturity on our 2020 Notes. Our indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly in unfavorable capital and credit market conditions;•incurrence of debt service and repayment obligations that reduce the availability of cash resources for other business purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets; and•placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. During fiscal 2012, we entered into a $150 million senior secured asset-based revolving Credit Facility. In addition to customary remedies that would apply should we default under the credit agreement governing this facility, we may be subject to lender control over certain cash assets and required to comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio in the event that we do not maintain the requisite level of availability under the facility. The credit agreement also contains customary covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, pay cash dividends, incur debt, create liens and encumbrances, redeem or repurchase stock, enter into certain acquisition transactions, repay indebtedness, make investments or dispose of assets. The Credit Facility matures on August 13, 2015, provided that it will mature early on December 15, 2014, if any of Ciena's 4.0% convertible senior notes due March 15, 2015 are then outstanding. We may also enter into additional transactions or lending facilities, including equipment 24Table of Contentsloans, working capital lines of credit and other long-term debt, that may increase our indebtedness and result in additional restrictions upon our business. Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding. We have accessed the capital markets in the past and successfully raised funds, through the issuance of equity or convertible debt, to increase our cash position, support our operations and undertake strategic growth initiatives. We regularly evaluate our liquidity position, debt obligations, and anticipated cash needs to fund our long-term operating plans and may consider it necessary or advisable to raise additional capital in the future. Global capital markets have undergone periods of significant volatility and uncertainty in recent years, and there can be no assurance that such financing alternatives would be available to us, should we determine it necessary or advisable to seek additional cash resources. Facilities transitions could be disruptive to our operations and may result in unanticipated expense and adverse effects our cash position and cash flows. We have recently undertaken and expect to undertake a number of significant facilities transitions affecting a number of our largest employee populations. The lease of our “Lab 10” building on the Carling Campus in Ottawa, Canada will expire in fiscal 2017, and we are currently considering facilities and development alternatives in advance of the expiration of this lease. In addition, the lease for our research and development facility in Gurgaon, India will expire in October 2014. While we have an agreement to lease for periods beyond such date, the parties have not yet executed an extension of the lease. Both locations include sophisticated research and development lab equipment and significant headcount including key engineering personnel. Locating appropriate alternative space for our engineering operations may be costly, and there can be no assurance that the transition of key engineering functions to a successor facility will not be disruptive or adversely affect productivity. Significant facilities transitions could be disruptive to our operations and may result in unanticipated expense and adverse effects on our cash position and cash flows. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations.We have previously taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations, improve efficiencies, or realign our organization and staffing to better match our market opportunities and our technology development initiatives. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, optimize our operations to achieve our target operating model and profitability objectives, or better reflect changes in the strategic direction of our business. These changes could be disruptive to our business, including our research and development efforts, and may result in significant expense, including accounting charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations and use of cash in those periods in which we undertake such actions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively.Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical, engineering and other personnel with experience in our industry is intense, and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. We may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. Because we rely upon equity awards as a significant component of compensation, particularly for our executive team, a lack of positive performance in our stock price, reduced grant levels, or changes to our compensation program may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of members of our management team or other key personnel could be disruptive to our business, and, were it necessary, it could be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel. In addition, none of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, and our operations and results of operations could suffer. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Historically, our sales were primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result of our increased global presence, a larger percentage of our revenue and operating expense are now non-U.S. dollar denominated and therefore subject to foreign currency fluctuation. We face exposure to currency exchange rates as a result of the growth in our non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense in Canada, Europe, Asia and Latin America. From time to time, we may hedge against currency exposure associated with anticipated foreign currency cash flows. There can be no assurance that any hedging instruments will be effective, and losses associated with these instruments and the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may negatively affect our results of operations.25Table of ContentsOur products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties, and our business would be adversely affected if this technology were no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms.We integrate third party software and other technology into our embedded operating system, network management system tools and other products. Licenses for this technology may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Third party licensors may insist on unreasonable financial or other terms in connection with our use of such technology. Our failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license, which may result in significant costs and require us to obtain or develop a substitute technology. As networks become more open and software programmable, we expect that communications networking solutions vendors, including Ciena, will increasingly contribute to and use technology developed by standards settings bodies or other industry forums that seek to promote the integration of network layers and functions. This may increase risks associated with our use or reliance upon third party or open source software. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining third party technology licenses may disrupt development of our products and increase our costs.Strategic acquisitions and investments may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make investments in other technology companies, or enter into other strategic relationships, to expand the markets we address, diversify our customer base or acquire or accelerate the development of technology or products. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, or incur debt or assume indebtedness. These transactions involve numerous risks, including:•significant integration costs;•disruption due to the integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel; •diversion of management attention; •difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; •loss of key employees;•ineffective internal controls over financial reporting;•dependence on unfamiliar suppliers or manufacturers; •exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims; and•adverse tax or accounting effects including amortization expense related to intangible assets and charges associated with impairment of goodwill.As a result of these and other risks, our acquisitions, investments or strategic transactions may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Changes in government regulation affecting the communications industry and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry, and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our largest customers, including service providers and multiservice network operators, are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies. Changes in regulatory requirements applicable to wireline or wireless communications and the Internet in the United States or other countries could serve as a disincentive to providers to invest in their communications network infrastructures or introduce new services. These changes could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. Changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Government regulations affecting the use, import or export of products could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect our revenue and increase our costs. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, license requirements and other restrictions on the usage, import or export of some of the technologies that we sell. Government regulation of usage, import or export of our products, technology within our products, or our failure to obtain required approvals for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenue and costs of sales. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in enforcement actions, fines or penalties and restrictions on export privileges. In addition, costly tariffs on our equipment, restrictions on importation, trade protection measures and domestic preference requirements of certain countries could limit our access to these markets and harm our sales. For example, India's government has implemented security regulations applicable to network equipment vendors, and has imposed significant tariffs that may inhibit sales of certain 26Table of Contentscommunications equipment, including equipment manufactured in China, where certain of our products are assembled. These and other regulations could adversely affect the sale or use of our products, substantially increase our cost of sales and adversely affect our business and revenue.Government regulations related to the environment and potential climate change could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change. If we were to violate or become liable under these laws or regulations, we could incur fines, costs related to damage to property or personal injury, and costs related to investigation or remediation activities. Our product design efforts and the manufacturing of our products are also subject to evolving requirements relating to the presence of certain materials or substances in our equipment, including regulations that make producers for such products financially responsible for the collection, treatment and recycling of certain products. For example, our operations and financial results may be negatively affected by environmental regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) that have been adopted by the European Union. Compliance with these and similar environmental regulations may increase our cost of designing, manufacturing, selling and removing our products. These regulations may also make it difficult to obtain supply of compliant components or may require us to write off non-compliant inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.We may be required to write down long-lived assets, and these impairment charges would adversely affect our operating results. As of October 31, 2013, our balance sheet includes $366.9 million in long-lived assets, which includes $185.8 million of intangible assets. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows upon which our estimates are based. Periods of significant uncertainty or instability of macroeconomic conditions can make forecasting future business difficult. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results would be materially adversely affected in such period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Changes in our business, including certain initiatives to transform business processes, to invest in information systems or to transition certain functions to third party resources or providers, will necessitate modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems as we optimize our business and operations. Our increased global operations and expansion into new regions could pose additional challenges to our internal control systems. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, or any additional changes to be made, will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer. Our stock price is volatile.Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. During fiscal 2013, our closing stock price ranged from a high of $27.67 per share to a low of $13.16 per share. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuation that has affected the market price of many technology companies, with such volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts can cause significant swings in our stock price. Our stock price could also be affected by announcements that we, our competitors, or our customers may make, particularly announcements related to acquisitions or other significant transactions. Our common stock is included in certain market indices and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company would adversely affect our stock price. These and other factors affecting macroeconomic conditions or financial markets may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.27Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.