Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvesting in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter.Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of long-term, future revenue and gross margin, and substantial reductions in expense are difficult and can take time to implement. Uncertainty or lack of visibility into customer spending, and changes in economic or market conditions that affect customer spending, can make it difficult to forecast future revenue and corresponding expense levels. Consequently, our level of operating expense or inventory may be high relative to revenue, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. Increases in the percentage of quarterly revenue relating to orders placed in that quarter, along with significant order volume late in the quarter, could further result in variability and less predictability in our quarterly results. Additional factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: •broader macroeconomic conditions, including weakness and volatility in global markets, affecting our customers and their consumer and enterprise end users; •changes in capital spending by large communications service providers;•seasonal effects in our business, including the timing and size of customer orders;•the amount of backlog orders we have and our ability to recognize revenue relating to these sales; •the mix of revenue by product segment, geography and customer in any particular quarter;•the level of pricing pressure we encounter, particularly for our Packet-Optical Transport products which comprise a significant concentration of our revenue;•the transition of product sales to new, next-generation technology platforms across our segments; and17Table of Contents•changes in material and labor costs, including our ability to optimize our resources, improve manufacturing efficiencies and achieve cost reductions in our supply chain. Many factors affecting our results of operations are beyond our control, particularly in the case of large service provider orders and multi-vendor or multi-technology network infrastructure builds, where the achievement of certain thresholds for acceptance is subject to the readiness and performance of the customer or other providers, and changes in customer requirements or installation plans. The factors above may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause our stock price to decline. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations.We face an extremely competitive market for sales of communications networking equipment, software and services and increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced demand, lower gross margins and the loss of market share that could harm our business and results of operations. Competition is particularly intense as we and our competitors more aggressively seek to displace incumbent equipment vendors at large carrier customers and secure new customers and additional market share for new, next-generation products. In an effort to secure customer opportunities and capture market share, we have in the past, and may in the future, agree to onerous commercial terms or pricing that result in low or negative gross margins on a particular order or group of orders. We expect this level of competition to continue and potentially increase, particularly in the U.S., as larger Chinese equipment vendors such as Huawei seek to gain market entry and other global competitors seek to retain incumbent positions with customers in the region.Competition in our markets, generally, is based on any one or a combination of the following factors: price; product features; functionality and performance; service offering; manufacturing capability and lead-times; incumbency and existing business relationships; scalability; and the flexibility of products to meet the immediate and future network and service requirements of customers. A small number of very large companies have dominated our industry, many of which have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity, broader product offerings and more established relationships with service providers and other customer segments than we do. In addition, a number of these vendors are putting forth competing visions for how next-generation network architectures should be designed. Because of their scale and resources, they may be perceived to be a better fit for the procurement, or network operating and management, strategies of large service providers. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly or may be more attractive to customers. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics, including:•significant price competition, particularly for our Packet-Optical Transport platforms;•early announcement of product development initiatives and new platform offerings;•customer financing assistance provided by other vendors or their sponsors; •assumption of onerous or atypical commercial terms that involve a greater assumption of liability or allocation of risk upon the vendor;•offers to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; and•intellectual property assertions and disputes. The tactics described above can be particularly effective in an increasingly concentrated base of potential customers such as communications service providers. If competitive pressures increase or we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our business and results of operations would suffer. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of capital expenditure by customers in response to these conditions. Global markets have experienced a recent period of significant volatility that has resulted in heightened uncertainty and cautious customer behavior. Broad macroeconomic weakness and market volatility have previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services that have adversely affected our operating results. Continuation of or an increase in these challenging market conditions and macroeconomic weakness could result in:•reductions in customer capital spending and delay or deferral of network initiatives; •difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning; •increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities;18Table of Contents•increased pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin;•higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;•tightening of credit markets to fund capital expenditures by our customers and us; •customer financial difficulty, including longer collection cycles and other difficulties collecting accounts receivable; and•increased risk of charges relating to excess and obsolete inventories and the write-off of other intangible assets. Our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected by reduced customer spending in response to unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or specific to a particular region where we operate.Our reliance upon third party manufacturers exposes us to risks that could negatively affect our business and operations. We rely upon third party contract manufacturers to perform substantially all of the manufacturing of our products and a significant portion of our component sourcing. We do not have contracts in place with some of our manufacturers, do not have guaranteed supply of components or access to manufacturing capacity, and in some cases are utilizing temporary or transitional commercial arrangements. Our reliance upon third party manufacturers could expose us to increased risks related to lead times, continuity of supply, on-time delivery, quality assurance, and compliance with environmental standards and other regulations. Reliance upon third party manufacturers exposes us to significant risks related to their operations, financial position, business continuity, sourcing relationships and labor relationships, that may affect their servicing of Ciena including their continued viability. Our operations may also be affected by geopolitical events, natural disasters, military actions or health pandemics in the countries where our products or critical components are manufactured. Our product manufacturing principally takes place in Mexico, Canada, China and Thailand. Significant disruptions in these countries including natural disasters, epidemics, acts of war or terrorism, social or political unrest or work stoppages, affecting the cost or availability or allocation of supply and manufacturing capacity, would negatively affect our business and results of operations. In an effort to drive cost reductions and further optimize Ciena's operations, we are working to rationalize our supply chain and consolidate third party contract manufacturers and distribution facilities. We also intend to pursue additional opportunities for direct fulfillment of products from our manufacturers to our customers. There can be no assurance that these efforts, including any reallocation of the third party manufacturing and sourcing or changes in fulfillment involving our manufacturers, will not ultimately result in additional costs, changes in quality or disruptions in our operations and business.Our reliance upon third party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk and could limit our sales capability, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships.We maintain a global sourcing strategy and depend on third party suppliers for our product components and subsystems, as well as for equipment used to manufacture and test our products. Our products include key optical and electronic components for which reliable, high-volume supply is often available only from sole or limited sources. Increases in market demand or scarcity of resources or manufacturing capability have previously resulted in shortages in availability of important components for our solutions, allocation challenges and increased lead times. Conversely, periods of economic weakness or difficulties in the business of our component suppliers can result in increased costs or discontinuation of components. Our business is also exposed to risk associated with the international locations from which we source our components, including natural disasters, political and social instability. In recent months, several regions of Thailand have experienced severe flooding that has affected the operations of certain component providers in our supply chain, or their suppliers of optical components based in Thailand. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter shortages, extended lead times or other disruptions in the availability or allocation of necessary optical components which could affect our business over the next several fiscal quarters. We are also exposed to risk relating to unfavorable economic conditions or other similar challenges affecting the businesses of our component providers that can affect their liquidity levels, ability to continue to invest in their business, and manufacturing capability. The difficulties above could result in lost revenue, additional product costs and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. We do not have any guarantee of supply from these third parties, and in certain cases are relying upon temporary or transitional commercial arrangements. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure the components or subsystems that we require in sufficient quantity and quality on reasonable terms. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key components, could require that we locate an alternate source or redesign our products, each of which could increase our costs and negatively affect our product gross margin and results of operations. Our business and results of operations would be negatively affected if we were to experience any significant disruption or difficulties with key suppliers affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of required components.A small number of large communications service providers account for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss 19Table of Contentsof any of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among a few, large global communications service providers. By way of example, AT&T accounted for approximately 15.5% of fiscal 2011 revenue and our largest ten customers contributed 55.9% of fiscal 2011 revenue. Consequently, our financial results are closely correlated with the spending of a relatively small number of service provider customers and can be significantly affected by market or industry changes that affect the businesses of service providers. These factors can include consumer and enterprise spending on communication services, macroeconomic volatility, the adoption of new communications products and services, the emergence of competing network operators and changing demands of end user customers. Because the terms of our frame contracts generally do not include any minimum purchase commitment and spending by these service providers can be unpredictable and sporadic, our revenue and operating results can fluctuate on a quarterly basis. Reliance upon a relatively small number of service providers increases our exposure to changes in the network and purchasing strategies. Some of our customers are pursuing efforts to outsource the management and operation of their networks, or have indicated a procurement strategy to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase equipment, which may benefit our larger competitors. Our concentration in revenue has increased in the past as a result of consolidation among a number of our largest customers. Consolidation may increase the likelihood of temporary or indefinite reductions in customer spending or changes in network strategy that could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more of our large service provider customers, a significant reduction in their spending, or market or industry factors adversely affecting service providers generally, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Investment of research and development resources in technologies for which there is not a matching market opportunity, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. We continually invest in research and development to sustain or enhance our existing products and develop or acquire new product technologies. Our current development efforts are focused upon the platform evolution of our CoreDirector Multiservice Optical Switch family to our 5430 Reconfigurable Switching System, expansion of our service delivery and aggregation switches, and extension of our 40G and 100G coherent technologies and capabilities for our Packet-Optical Transport platforms. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing a new or improved product to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the market for our products, or those introduced by our competitors, may move in directions we had not anticipated. There is no guarantee that our new products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. There is a significant possibility, therefore, that some of our development decisions, including significant expenditures on acquisitions, research and development costs, or investments in technologies, will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in some projects will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we failed to invest, or invested too late, in a technology, product or enhancement sought by our customers, or addressing growth markets or emerging customer segments or applications beyond our traditional customer base. Changes in market demand or investment priorities may also cause us to discontinue existing or planned development for new products or features, which can have a disruptive effect on our relationships with customers. If we fail to make the right investments or fail to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be harmed. We may experience delays in the development of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business.Our products are based on complex technology, and we can experience unanticipated delays in developing and manufacturing these solutions. Delays in product development may affect our reputation with customers, affect our ability to seize market opportunities and impact the timing and level of demand for our products. Each step in the development life cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could adversely affect the cost-effective and timely development of our products. We may encounter delays relating to engineering development activities and software, design, sourcing and manufacture of critical components, and the development of prototypes. In addition, intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the release of these products. If we do not successfully develop products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Product performance problems and undetected errors affecting the performance, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations.The development and production of sophisticated hardware and software for communications network equipment is 20Table of Contentscomplicated. Some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or when carrying traffic with other equipment. As a result, undetected defects or errors, and product quality, interoperability, reliability and performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. We are in the process of launching a number of new platforms across our product segments. Unanticipated product performance problems, including any unforeseen defects or vulnerabilities, can relate to the design, manufacturing and installation of our products, as well as defects in components, software or manufacturing, installation or maintenance services supplied by third parties. These product performance, reliability, security and quality problems can negatively affect our business, including: •increased costs to remediate software or hardware defects or replace products; •payment of liquidated damages, contractual or similar penalties, or other claims for performance failures or delays;•increased inventory obsolescence;•increased warranty expense or estimates resulting from higher failure rates, additional field service obligations or other rework costs related to defects;•costs and claims that may not be covered by liability insurance coverage or recoverable from third parties;•delays in recognizing revenue or collecting accounts receivable; and•damage to our reputation, declining sales and order cancellations.These consequences of product defects or problems relating to quality, reliability and security of our products, including any significant costs to remediate, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Network equipment sales to large communications service providers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition.Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain and expand our sales to large communications service providers. These sales typically involve lengthy sales cycles, extensive product testing, and demonstration laboratory or network certification, including network-specific or region-specific product certification or homologation processes. These sales also often involve protracted and sometimes difficult contract negotiations in which we may deem it necessary to agree to unfavorable contract terms or conditions that adversely affect pricing, expose us to penalties for delays or non-performance, allocate to us a disproportionate amount of risk, and extend the timing of payment and revenue recognition. We may also be requested to provide deferred payment terms, vendor or third-party financing, or offer other alternative purchase structures. These terms may negatively affect our revenue and results of operations and increase our risk and susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our results. Service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest. Moreover, our purchase agreements generally do not include minimum purchase commitments and customers often have the right to modify, delay, reduce or cancel previous orders. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential sales opportunities that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. Efforts by us or our strategic third party channel partners to sell our solutions into targeted geographic markets and customer segments may be unsuccessful. We continue to take steps, including sales initiatives and strategic channel relationships, to sell our products into new markets, growth geographies and diverse customer segments beyond our traditional service provider customer base. Specifically, we are targeting opportunities in Brazil, the Middle East, Russia, Japan and India. We are also targeting sales opportunties with enterprises, wireless operators, cable operators, submarine network operators, Internet content providers, cloud infrastructure providers, research and education institutions, and federal, state and local governments. We believe sales to these customer segments, as well as emerging network operators supporting new communications services and applications, will be an important component of our growth strategy. In many cases, we have less experience in these markets and customer segments and they may have less familiarity with our company. To succeed in some of these geographic markets and customer segments we intend to leverage strategic sales channels and distribution arrangements. We expect these relationships to be an important part of our business internationally as well as for sales in support of network applications including cloud-based enterprise opportunities. Difficulties selling into these markets and customer segments, whether through internal resources or strategic, third party channels, could limit our growth and results of operations. The international scale of our operations could expose us to additional risks and expense and adversely affect our results of operations.We market, sell and service our products globally and rely upon a global supply chain for sourcing of important components and manufacturing of our products. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including: •effects of changes in currency exchange rates;21Table of Contents•more unfavorable commercial terms;•greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; •the impact of economic conditions in countries outside the United States; •less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •adverse tax and customs consequences, particularly as related to transfer-pricing issues; •social, political and economic instability;•higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices that could expose us to liability or damage our reputation;•trade protection measures, export compliance, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and •natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism. Moreover, while we have seen early progress and sales opportunities with new customers in the Middle East, there can be no assurance that recent instability and unrest in the region will not adversely affect our business, operations and financial results relating to these and other opportunities. We expect that we may enter new markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local sales, service or fulfillment partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements could adversely affect our business and operations. Our global operations may result in increased risk and expense to our business and could give rise to unanticipated liabilities or difficulties that could adversely affect our operations and financial results.We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the convergence of product lines or unfavorable market conditions.To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture components and complete assemblies based in part on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, our inventory purchases expose us to the risk that our customers either will not order the products we have forecast, or will purchase fewer products than forecast. Market uncertainty can limit our visibility into customer spending plans and compound the difficulty of forecasting inventory at appropriate levels. Moreover, our customer purchase agreements generally do not include any minimum purchase commitment, and customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. As a result, we may purchase inventory in anticipation of sales that ultimately do not occur. Historically, our inventory write-offs have resulted from the circumstances above. As features and functionalities converge across our product lines, and we introduce new products with overlapping feature sets, however, we face an additional risk that customers may forego purchases of one product we have inventoried in favor of another product with similar functionality. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory, our results of operations for the period would be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce.We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our products and technology. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that our rights will provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.We are subject to the risk that third parties may attempt to use our intellectual property without authorization. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, technology and other proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of such unauthorized use. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management time and resources, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain a successful result. Any inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, despite our efforts, could harm our ability to compete effectively.We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights.From time to time third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our business. These assertions have increased over time due to our growth, the increased number of products and competitors in the communications network equipment industry and the corresponding overlaps, and the general increase in the rate of patent claims assertions both by operating entities and third party non-practicing entities (sometimes referred to as “patent trolls”), particularly in the United States and Canada. Asserted claims, litigation or other proceedings can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers 22Table of Contentsor customers, alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products and technology or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, divert the time and attention of our technical and management personnel, and result in costly litigation. These claims, if successful, can require us to: •pay substantial damages or royalties; •comply with an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain of our products; •seek a license for the use of certain intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; •develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful; and •indemnify our customers pursuant to contractual obligations and pay damages on their behalf. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the steps taken to safeguard against the risks of infringing the rights of third parties.Our failure to manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers.We rely on a number of third party service partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon these partners for certain installation, maintenance and support functions. In order to ensure the proper installation and maintenance of our products, we must identify, train and certify qualified service partners. Certification can be costly and time-consuming, and our partners often provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to manage effectively our relationships with our service partners and cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required. We may also be exposed to liability relating to the performance of our service partners. If our service partners are unsuccessful in delivering services: •we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue; •our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and•our relationship with customers could suffer. If we do not manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners, or they fail to perform these services in the manner or time required, our financial results and relationship with customers could be adversely affected.We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies.We have entered into agreements with strategic partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We may rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies, diversify our product portfolio, or address a particular customer or geographic market. We may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resale or similar strategic arrangements in the future, including in support of our selection as a domain supply partner with AT&T. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third party products. Our third party relationships could expose us to risks associated with the business and viability of such partners, as well as delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, indemnity, service and other commercial obligations, including potential liability to customers, greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by our technology partners. Some of our strategic partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to these risks could harm our reputation with key customers and negatively affect our business and our results of operations.Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In the course of our sales to customers, we may have difficulty collecting receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales channel partners. Lack of liquidity in the capital markets, macroeconomic weakness and market volatility may increase our exposure to credit risks. Our attempts to monitor these situations carefully and take appropriate measures to protect ourselves 23Table of Contentsmay not be sufficient, and it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.The proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If these information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the future growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. We are currently pursuing initiatives to transform and optimize our business operations through the reengineering of certain processes, investment in automation and engagement of strategic partners or resources to assist with select business functions.These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations, and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require changes in system design, the modification of internal control procedures and significant training of employees or third party resources. Our information technology systems, and those of third party providers, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized access and cyber attacks. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our business processes or information systems, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business and our results of operations. Outstanding indebtedness under our convertible notes may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business. At October 31, 2011, indebtedness on our outstanding convertible notes totaled approximately $1.4 billion in aggregate principal. Our indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly in light of unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets;•debt service and repayment obligations that reduce the availability of cash resources for other purposes, including capital expenditures;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and•placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may also add additional indebtedness such as equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long-term debt. Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding. We have accessed the capital markets in the past and successfully raised funds, through the issuance of equity or convertible debt, to increase our cash position, support our operations and undertake strategic growth initiatives, including the MEN Acquisition. We regularly evaluate our liquidity position, debt obligations, and anticipated cash needs to fund our long-term operating plans and may consider raising additional capital in the future. Global capital markets have undergone a sustained period of significant volatility and uncertainty and there can be no assurance that such financing alternatives would be available to us, should we determine it necessary or advisable to seek additional cash resources. Facilities transitions could be disruptive to our operations and result in unanticipated expense. During fiscal 2011, we received notice of early termination from Nortel shortening the lease of our “Lab 10” building on the Carling Campus in Ottawa, Canada from ten to five years, with the lease termination set to occur in fiscal 2015. This is our largest facility, which includes a sophisticated research and development lab and key engineering personnel. We are currently considering facilities alternatives arising as a result of the early termination of this lease, however locating appropriate alternative space for our engineering operations in Ottawa may be costly and there can be no assurance that the transition of key engineering functions to a successor facility will not be disruptive or adversely affect productivity. Additionally, in November 2011, we entered into a lease for our new corporate headquarters and anticipate transitioning affected employees and operations, including key management and administration resources, to this new facility commencing in fiscal 2012. These facilities 24Table of Contentstransitions could be disruptive to our operations and could result in unanticipated expense that adversely affects our financial results. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have previously taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, optimize our operations and achieve our desired target operating model and profitability. These changes could be disruptive to our business and may result in significant expense including accounting charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which we take such a charge. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively.Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical, engineering and other personnel with experience in our industry is intense and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. We may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. Because we rely upon equity awards as a significant component of compensation, particularly for our executive team, a lack of positive performance in our stock price, reduced grant levels, or changes to our compensation program may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. It may be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel, and the loss of such individuals could be disruptive to our business. In addition, none of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively and our operations and results of operations could suffer. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Historically, our sales were primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result of our increased global presence, a larger percentage of our revenue and operating expense are now non-U.S. dollar denominated and therefore subject to foreign currency fluctuation. We face exposure to currency exchange rates as a result of the growth in our non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense in Canada, Europe, Asia and Latin America. From time to time, we may hedge against currency exposure associated with anticipated foreign currency cash flows. There can be no assurance that any hedging instruments will be effective and losses associated with these instruments and the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may negatively affect our results of operations.Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties and our business would be adversely affected if this technology was no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms.We integrate third-party software and other technology into our embedded operating system, network management system tools and other products. Licenses for this technology may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Third party licensors may insist on unreasonable financial or other terms in connection with our use of such technology. Difficulties with third party technology licensors could result in termination of such licenses, which may result in significant costs and require us to obtain or develop a substitute technology. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining third-party technology licenses may disrupt development of our products and increase our costs, which could harm our business.Strategic acquisitions and investments may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make investments in other technology companies, or enter into other strategic relationships, to expand the markets we address, diversify our customer base or acquire or accelerate the development of technology or products. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, or incur debt or assume indebtedness. These transactions involve numerous risks, including:•significant integration costs;•disruption due to the integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel; •diversion of management's attention; •difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; •the loss of key employees;•ineffective internal controls over financial reporting;•dependence on unfamiliar suppliers or manufacturers; •exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims; and•adverse tax or accounting effects including amortization expense related to intangible assets and charges associated 25Table of Contentswith impairment of goodwill.As a result of these and other risks, our acquisitions, investments or strategic transactions may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Changes in government regulation affecting the communications industry and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our largest customers are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies. Changes in regulatory requirements applicable to wireline or wireless communications and the Internet in the United States or other countries could inhibit service providers from investing in their communications network infrastructures or introducing new services. These changes could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. Changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Governmental regulations affecting the use, import or export of products could negatively affect our revenue. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, license requirements and other restrictions on the usage, import or export of some of the technologies that we sell. Governmental regulation of usage, import or export of our products, technology within our products, or our failure to obtain required approvals for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenue and costs of sales. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in enforcement actions, fines or penalties and restrictions on export privileges. In addition, costly tariffs on our equipment, restrictions on importation, trade protection measures and domestic preference requirements of certain countries could limit our access to these markets and harm our sales. For example, India's government has recently implemented and is considering additional security regulations applicable to network equipment vendors, and has imposed significant tariffs that may inhibit sales of certain communications equipment; including equipment manufactured in China, where certain of our products are assembled. These and other regulations could adversely affect the sale or use of our products, substantially increase our cost of sales and could adversely affect our business and revenue.Governmental regulations related to the environment and potential climate change, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change. We could incur fines, costs related to damage to property or personal injury, and costs related to investigation or remediation activities, if we were to violate or become liable under these laws or regulations. Our product design efforts, and the manufacturing of our products, are also subject to evolving requirements relating to the presence of certain materials or substances in our equipment, including regulations that make producers for such products financially responsible for the collection, treatment and recycling of certain products. For example, our operations and financial results may be negatively affected by environmental regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) that have been adopted by the European Union. Compliance with these and similar environmental regulations may increase our cost of designing, manufacturing, selling and removing our products. These regulations may also make it difficult to obtain supply of compliant components or require us to write off non-compliant inventory, which could have an adverse effect our business and operating results.We may be required to write down long-lived assets and these impairment charges would adversely affect our operating results. As of October 31, 2011, our balance sheet includes $504.6 million in long-lived assets, which includes $331.6 million million of intangible assets. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows. Given the significant uncertainty and instability of macroeconomic conditions in recent periods, forecasting future business is difficult and subject to modification. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in such period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, 26Table of Contentsoperating results and stock price.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Changes in our business, including certain initiatives to transform business processes, invest in information systems or transition certain functions to third party resources or providers, will necessitate modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems as we optimize our business and operations. Our increased global operations and expansion into new regions could pose additional challenges to our internal control systems. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, or any additional changes to be made, will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer. Our stock price is volatile.Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. During fiscal 2011, our closing stock price ranged from a high of $28.81 per share to a low of $10.28 per share. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, with such volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts can cause significant swings in our stock price. Our stock price can also be affected by announcements that we, our competitors, or our customers may make, particularly announcements related to acquisitions or other significant transactions. Our common stock is included in a number of market indices and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company would adversely affect our stock price. These factors, as well as conditions affecting the general economy or financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.