Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks relating to our pending acquisition of certain Nortel Metro Ethernet Networks (MEN) Assets Business combinations involve a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors related to our pending acquisition of certain Nortel MEN assets before investing in our securities. The pending transaction may not be completed, may be delayed or may result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on Ciena’s operation of the business following completion. In addition to customary closing conditions, completion of the pending transaction is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental clearances or approvals that have not yet been obtained, including, without limitation, the Investment Canada Act and regional bankruptcy approvals in France and Israel. Completion of the transaction is also subject to information and consultation with employee representatives and/or employees in certain international jurisdictions. Ciena has previously been granted early termination of the antitrust waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and the Canadian Competition Act. There can be no assurance that these clearances and approvals will be obtained and that previous clearances will be maintained. Third parties could petition to have governmental entities reconsider previously granted clearances. In addition, the governmental entities from which clearances and approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the transaction, require changes to the terms of the transaction or impose restrictions on the operation of the business following completion of the transaction. If the transaction is not completed, completion is delayed or Ciena becomes subject to any material conditions in order to obtain any clearances or approvals required to complete the transaction, its business and results of operations may be adversely affected and its stock price may suffer. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies expected from the transaction, which could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. The success of the transaction will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business and realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies to be derived from the combination of the two businesses. We believe that the additional resources, expanded geographic reach, new and broader customer relationships, and deeper portfolio of complementary network solutions derived from the pending transaction will accelerate the execution of our corporate and product development strategy and provide opportunities to optimize our product development investment. Actual cost, operating, strategic and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address the integration challenges above, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. The anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the value of Ciena’s common stock may be adversely affected. Our pending acquisition will result in significant integration costs and any material delays or unanticipated additional expense may harm our business and results of operations. We expect the magnitude of the integration effort will be significant and that it will require material capital and operating expense by Ciena. We currently expect that integration expense associated with equipment and information technology costs, transaction expense, and consulting and third party service fees associated with integration, will be approximately $180 million over a two-year period, with a significant portion of such costs anticipated to be incurred in the first year after completion of the transaction. This amount does not give effect to any expense related to, among other things, facilities restructuring or inventory obsolescence charges. This amount also does not give effect to higher operating expense associated with transition services described below. As a result, the integration expense we incur and recognize for financial statement purposes could be significantly higher. Any material delays or unanticipated additional expense may harm our business and results of operations. 16 The integration of the acquired assets will be extremely complex and involve a number of risks. Failure to successfully integrate our respective operations, including the underlying information systems, could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Because of the structure of the transaction, as an asset carve out from Nortel, upon completion of the transaction we will not be integrating an entire enterprise, with the back-office systems and processes that make the business run, when we complete this transaction. We must build the infrastructure and organizations, and retain third party services, to ensure business continuity and to support and scale our business. Integrating our operations will be extremely complex and there is no assurance that we will not encounter material delays or unanticipated costs that would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Successful integration involves numerous risks, including: • assimilating product offerings and sales and marketing operations; • coordinating research and development efforts; • retaining and attracting customers following a period of significant uncertainty associated with the acquired business; • diversion of management attention from business and operational matters; • identifying and retaining key personnel; • maintaining and transitioning relationships with key vendors, including component providers, manufacturers and service providers; • integrating accounting, information technology, enterprise management and administrative systems which may be difficult or costly; • making significant cash expenditures that may be required to retain personnel or eliminate unnecessary resources; • managing tax costs or liabilities; • coordinating a broader and more geographically dispersed organization; • maintaining uniform standards, procedures and policies to ensure efficient and compliant administration of the organizaton; and • making any necessary modifications to internal control to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Delays encountered in the integration process, significant cost overruns and unanticipated expense could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Following completion of the transaction we will rely upon an affiliate of Nortel to perform certain critical transition services during a transition period and there can be no assurance that such services will be performed timely and effectively. Following the completion of the transaction, we will rely upon an affiliate of Nortel for certain transition services related to the operation and continuity of the business following completion of the transaction. These services include, among others, critical functions relating to accounting, information technology, maintenance services and facilities. We anticipate that transition service-related expense will be significant and the administration and oversight of these services will be complex. The transition service provider will be performing services on behalf of Ciena as well as certain other purchasers of those businesses that Nortel has divested in the course of its bankruptcy proceedings. Relying upon this transition services provider to perform critical operations and services raises a number of significant business and operational risks, including its ability to become an effective support partner for all of the Nortel purchasers, segregation of such services, and its ability to retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel. There can be no assurance such services will be performed timely and effectively. Significant disruption in these transition services or unanticipated costs related to such services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Upon the closing of the transaction, we will take on substantial additional indebtedness and materially reduce our cash balance. In accordance with the applicable asset purchase agreements, upon completion of the transaction, we will pay the sellers $530 million in cash and issue them $239 million in aggregate principal of senior convertible notes due in fiscal 2017. This cash expenditure will significantly reduce our cash balance. In addition, the terms of the notes to be issued provide for an adjustment of the interest rate up to a maximum of 8% per annum, depending upon the market price of our common stock 17 upon the completion of the transaction. The lower cash balance and increased indebtedness resulting from this transaction could adversely affect our business. In particular, it could increase our vulnerability to sustained, adverse macroeconomic weakness, limit our ability to obtain further financing and limit our ability to pursue certain operational and strategic opportunities. Our indebtedness and lower cash balance may also put us in a competitive disadvantage to other vendors with greater resources. The transaction may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our purchase of the acquired business in connection with Nortel’s bankruptcy proceedings may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities. We may incur unforeseen liabilities relating to the operation of the business including employment related obligations under applicable law or benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors, including as a result of any contracts assigned to Ciena in the transaction. We may also incur liabilities or claims associated with our acquisition or licensing of Nortel’s technology and intellectual property including claims of infringement. Our acquisition of Nortel’s assets, particularly in international jurisdictions, could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Nortel. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The transaction may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may harm the market price of our common stock. We currently anticipate that the transaction will be accretive to earnings per share for fiscal 2011. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change after the completion of the transaction. We have previously incurred operating expense, on a stand alone basis, higher than we anticipated for periods during fiscal 2009. The magnitude of the integration relating to our pending transaction, together with the increased scale of our operations resulting from the transaction, will make forecasting, managing and constraining our operating expense even more difficult. We could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or fail to realize all of the benefits of the transaction that underlie our financial model and expectations as to profitability. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock. The complexity of the integration and transition associated with our pending transaction, together with the increased scale of our operations, may challenge our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results. Following the completion of the pending transaction, we will rely upon a combination of Ciena information systems and critical transition services that are necessary for us to accurately and effectively compile and report our financial results. We will also have to train new employees and third party providers, and assume operations in jurisdictions where we have not previously had operations. The scale of these operations, together with the complexity of the integration effort, including changes to or implementation of critical information technology systems, may adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis. We expect that the transaction may necessitate significant modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. We cannot be certain that changes to our design for internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to accurately and timely report our financial results, or are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business and market perception of our financial condition may be harmed and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected. Following our acquisition of the Nortel assets, the combined company must continue to retain, motivate and recruit key executives and employees, which may be difficult in light of uncertainty regarding the pending transaction and the significant integration efforts following closing. For the pending transaction to be successful, during the period before the transaction is completed, both Ciena and Nortel must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees. Moreover, following the completion of the transaction, Ciena must be successful at retaining and motivating key employees. Experienced employees, particularly with experience in optical engineering, are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. Employees of both companies may experience uncertainty, real or perceived, about their future role with the combined company until, or even after, Ciena’s post-closing strategies are announced or executed. These potential distractions may adversely affect the ability to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees and keep them focused on corporate strategies and objectives. The failure to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees before and following completion of the transaction could have a negative impact on Ciena’s business. 18 Risks related to our current business and operations Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of capital expenditure by our largest customers in response to these conditions. Starting in the second half of fiscal 2008, our business began to experience the effects of worsening macroeconomic conditions and significant disruptions in the financial and credit markets globally. In the face of these conditions, many companies, including some of our largest communications service provider customers, significantly reduced their network infrastructure expenditures as they sought to conserve capital, reduce debt or address uncertainties or changes in their own business models brought on by broader market challenges. Our business experienced lengthening sales cycles, customer delays in network buildouts and slowing deployments, resulting in lower demand across our customer base in all geographies. Our results of operations for fiscal 2009 were materially adversely affected by the weakness, volatility and uncertainty presented by the global market conditions that we encountered during the year. Broad macroeconomic weakness, customer financial difficulties, changes in customer business models and constrained spending on communications networks have previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services that have adversely affected our operating results. Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in: • difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; • increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities; • pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; • higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; • increased risk of charges relating to excess and obsolete inventories and the write off of other intangible assets; and • customer financial difficulty and increased risk of doubtful accounts receivable. Our business and financial results are closely tied to the prospects, performance, and financial condition of our largest communications service provider customers and are significantly affected by market or industry-wide changes that affect their businesses and their level of infrastructure-related spending. These factors include the level of enterprise and consumer spending on communications services, adoption of new communications services or applications and consumption of available network capacity. We are uncertain as to how long current unfavorable macroeconomic and industry conditions will persist and the magnitude of their effects on our business and results of operations. A small number of communications service providers account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among a relatively small number of communications service providers. Eight customers accounted for greater than 60% of our revenue in fiscal 2009. Consequently, our financial results are closely correlated with the spending of a relatively small number of communications service providers. The terms of our frame contracts generally do not obligate these customers to purchase any minimum or specific amounts of equipment or services. Because their spending may be unpredictable and sporadic, our revenue and operating results can fluctuate on a quarterly basis. Reliance upon a relatively small number of customers increases our exposure to changes in their network and purchasing strategies. Some of our customers are pursuing efforts to outsource the management and operation of their networks, or have indicated a procurement strategy to reduce or rationalize the number of vendors from which they purchase equipment. These strategies may present challenges to our business and could benefit our larger competitors. Our concentration in revenue has increased in recent years, in part, as a result of consolidations among a number of our largest customers. Consolidations may increase the likelihood of temporary or indefinite reductions in customer spending or changes in network strategy that could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more large service provider customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, as a result of the factors above or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of long-term future revenue and gross margin, and substantial reductions in expense are difficult and can take time to implement. Uncertainty or lack of visibility into customer spending, and changes in economic or market conditions, can make it difficult to prepare reliable estimates of future revenue and corresponding expense levels. Consequently, our level of operating expense or inventory may be high relative to our revenue, which could harm our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Given market conditions and the effect of cautious spending in recent quarters, lower levels of backlog orders and an increase in the percentage of quarterly revenue relating to orders placed in that quarter could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarterly results. Additional factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: • broader economic and market conditions affecting us and our customers; • changes in capital spending by large communications service providers; • the timing and size of orders, including our ability to recognize revenue under customer contracts; • variations in the mix between higher and lower margin products and services; and • the level of pricing pressure we encounter. Many factors affecting our results of operations are beyond our control, particularly in the case of large service provider orders and multi-vendor or multi-technology network infrastructure builds where the achievement of certain thresholds for acceptance is subject to the readiness and performance of the customer or other providers, and changes in customer requirements or installation plans. As a consequence, our results for a particular quarter may be difficult to predict, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results likely in future periods. The factors above may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause our stock price to decline. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations. The markets in which we compete for sales of networking equipment, software and services are extremely competitive, particularly the market for sales to large communications service providers. The level of competition and pricing pressure that we face increases substantially during periods of macroeconomic weakness, constrained spending or fewer network projects. As a result of current market conditions, we have experienced significant competition and increased pricing pressure, particularly for our optical transport products. We face particularly intense competition in our efforts to attract additional large carrier customers in new geographies and secure new market opportunities with existing carrier customers. In an effort to secure attractive long-term customers or new customers, we may agree to pricing or other terms that that result in negative gross margins on a particular order or group of orders. Competition in our markets, generally, is based on any one or a combination of the following factors: price, product features, functionality and performance, introduction of innovative network solutions, manufacturing capability and lead-times, incumbency and existing business relationships, scalability and the flexibility of products to meet the immediate and future network requirements of customers. A small number of very large companies have historically dominated our industry. These competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity, broader product offerings and more established relationships with service providers and other potential customers than we do. Because of their scale and resources, they may be perceived to be better positioned to offer network operating or management service for large carrier customers. Consolidation activity among large networking equipment providers has caused some of our competitors to grow even larger, which may increase their strategic advantages and adversely affect our competitive position. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly or may be more attractive to customers. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics, including: • significant price competition, particularly from competitors in Asia; • customer financing assistance; • early announcements of competing products and extensive marketing efforts; • competitors offering equity ownership positions to customers; • competitors offering to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; 20 • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property assertions and disputes. The tactics described above can be particularly effective in an increasingly concentrated base of potential customers such as communications service providers. If competitive pressures increase or we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our sales and profitability would suffer. Our reliance upon third party manufacturers exposes us to risks that could negatively affect our business and operations. We rely upon third party contract manufacturers to perform the majority of the manufacturing of our products and components. In recent years we have transitioned a significant portion of our product manufacturing to overseas suppliers in Asia, with much of the manufacturing taking place in China and Thailand. Some of our contract manufacturers ship products directly to our customers on behalf of Ciena. Our reliance upon these manufacturers could expose us to increased risks related to lead times, continued supply, on-time delivery, quality assurance and compliance with environmental standards and other regulations. Reliance upon third parties for manufacture of our products significantly exposes us to risks related to their business, financial position and continued viability, which may be adversely affected by broader negative macroeconomic conditions and difficulties in the credit markets. These conditions may disrupt their operations, result in discontinuation of services, or result in pricing increases that affect our manufacturing requirements. Disruptions to our business could also arise as a result of ineffective business continuity and disaster recovery plans by our manufacturers. We do not have contracts in place with some of our manufacturers and do not have guaranteed supply of components or manufacturing capacity. We could also experience difficulties as a result of geopolitical events, military actions or health pandemics in the countries where our products or components thereof are manufactured. During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, protests resulted in a blockade of Thailand’s main international airport, which delayed product shipments from one of our key contract manufacturers. Significant disruptions or difficulties with our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Investment of research and development resources in technologies for which there is not a matching market opportunity, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. We continually invest in research and development to sustain or enhance our existing products and develop or acquire new products technologies. Our current development efforts are focused upon the evolution of our CoreDirector Multiservice Optical Switch family, the expansion of our carrier Ethernet service delivery and aggregation products, and the extension of our CN 4200 converged optical service delivery portfolio, including 100G technologies and capabilities. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing a new or revised product to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the market for our products may move in directions we had not anticipated. There is no guarantee that new products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. There is a significant possibility, therefore, that some of our development decisions, including our acquisitions or investments in technologies, will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in some projects will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we failed to invest, or invested too late, in a technology, product or enhancement. Changes in market demand or investment priorities may also cause us to discontinue existing or planned development for new products or features, which can have a disruptive effect on our relationships with customers. If we fail to make the right investments or fail to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be harmed. Product performance problems could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. The development and production of highly technical and complex communications network equipment is complicated. Some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or when carrying traffic with other equipment. As a result, product performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. Our products have contained and may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects. These defects have resulted in warranty claims and additional costs to remediate. Unanticipated problems can relate to the design, manufacturing, installation or integration of our products. Performance problems and product malfunctions can also relate to defects in components, software or manufacturing services supplied by third parties. Product performance, reliability and quality problems can negatively affect our business, including: • increased costs to remediate software or hardware defects or replace products; • payment of liquidated damages or similar claims for performance failures or delays; 21 • increased inventory obsolescence; • increased warranty expense or estimates resulting from higher failure rates, additional field service obligations or other rework costs related to defects; • delays in recognizing revenue or collecting accounts receivable; and • declining sales to existing customers and order cancellations. Product performance problems could also damage our business reputation and harm our prospects with potential customers. These consequences of product defects or quality problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Network equipment sales to large communications service providers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume terms or conditions that negatively affect our pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain and expand our sales to large communications service providers. These sales typically involve lengthy sales cycles, protracted and sometimes difficult contract negotiations, and extensive product testing and network certification. We are sometimes required to agree to contract terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition in order to consummate a sale. As a result of current market conditions, these customers may request extended payment terms, vendor or third-party financing and other alternative purchase structures. These terms may, in turn, negatively affect our revenue and results of operations and increase our susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our results. Service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest. Moreover, our purchase agreements generally do not require that a customer guarantee any minimum purchase level and customers often have the right to modify, delay, reduce or cancel previous orders. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential relationships that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. Difficulties with third party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, could increase our costs and harm our business and customer relationships. We depend on third party suppliers for our product components and subsystems, as well as for equipment used to manufacture and test our products. Our products include key optical and electronic components for which reliable, high-volume supply is often available from sole or limited sources. We have previously encountered shortages in availability for important components that have affected our ability to deliver products in a timely manner. Our business would be negatively affected if one or more of our suppliers were to experience any significant disruption in their operations affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of components. Current unfavorable economic conditions, including a lack of liquidity, may adversely affect the business of our suppliers or the terms on which we purchase components. We have seen an increased incidence of component discontinuation as suppliers alter their businesses to adjust to market conditions. As a result of our reliance on third parties, we may be unable to secure the components or subsystems that we require in sufficient quantity and quality on reasonable terms. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key components, could require us to redesign products that use those components, which would increase our costs and negatively affect our product gross margin and results of operations. Difficulties with suppliers could also result in lost revenue, additional product costs and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. We may not be successful in selling our products into new markets and developing and managing new sales channels. We continue to take steps to sell our products into new geographic markets outside of our traditional markets and to a broader customer base, including other large communications service providers, enterprises, cable operators, wireless operators and federal, state and local governments. We have less experience in these markets and, in order to succeed in these markets, we believe we must develop and manage new sales channels and distribution arrangements. We expect these relationships to be an increasingly important part of our business. This strategy may not succeed and we may be exposed to increased expense and legal, business and financial risks associated with entering new markets and pursuing new customer segments through channel partners. Part of our strategy is to pursue sales to federal, state and local governments. These sales require compliance with complex procurement regulations with which we have limited experience. We may be unable to increase our sales to government contractors if we determine that we cannot comply with applicable regulations. Our failure to comply with regulations for existing contracts could result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines and suspension, or exclusion, from participation in federal government contracts. Failure to manage additional sales channels effectively would limit our ability to succeed in these new markets and could adversely affect our ability to expand our customer base and grow our business. 22 We may experience delays in the development of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. Our products are based on complex technology, and we can experience unanticipated delays in developing, manufacturing or deploying them. Each step in the development life cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could affect the cost-effective and timely development of our products. Intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the release of these products. Delays in product development may affect our reputation with customers and the timing and level of demand for our products. If we do not develop and successfully introduce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the convergence of our product lines or unfavorable macroeconomic or industry conditions. To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture components and complete assemblies based on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, our inventory purchases expose us to the risk that our customers either will not order the products we have forecasted or will purchase fewer products than forecasted. Unfavorable market or industry conditions can limit visibility into customer spending plans and compound the difficulty of forecasting inventory at appropriate levels. Moreover, our customer purchase agreements generally do not guarantee any minimum purchase level, and customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. As a result, we may purchase inventory in anticipation of sales that do not occur. Historically, our inventory write-offs have resulted from the circumstances above. As features and functionalities converge across our product lines, and we introduce new products, however, we face an additional risk that customers may forego purchases of one product we have inventoried in favor of another product with similar functionality. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory, our results of operations for the period would be materially adversely affected. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have previously taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future. These changes could be disruptive to our business and may result in the recording of accounting charges, including inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial charges resulting from any future restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which we take such a charge. Our failure to manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers. We rely on a number of third party service partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon these partners for certain maintenance and support functions, as well as the installation of our equipment in some large network builds. In order to ensure the proper installation and maintenance of our products, we must identify, train and certify qualified service partners. Certification can be costly and time-consuming, and our partners often provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to manage effectively our relationships with our service partners and cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required. If our service partners are unsuccessful in delivering services: • we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue; • our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and • our relationship with customers could suffer. Difficulties with service partners could cause us to transition a larger share of deployment and other services from third parties to internal resources, thereby increasing our services overhead costs and negatively affecting our services gross margin and results of operations. We may incur significant costs as a result of our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or respond to claims of infringement from others. Our business is dependent upon the successful protection of our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We are subject to the risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to access, copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, particularly as we expand our product development into India and increase our reliance upon contract manufacturers in Asia. These and other international operations could expose us to a lower level of intellectual property protection than in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that 23 the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of unauthorized use. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. From time to time we have been subject to litigation and other third party intellectual property claims, primarily alleging patent infringement. We have also been subject to third party claims arising as a result of our indemnification obligations to customers or resellers that purchase our products or as a result of alleged infringement relating to third party components that we include in our products. The frequency of these assertions is increasing as patent holders, including entities that are not in our industry and that purchase patents as an investment, use infringement assertions as a competitive tactic or as a source of additional revenue. Intellectual property infringement claims can significantly divert the time and attention of our personnel and result in costly litigation. These claims can also require us to pay substantial damages or royalties, enter into costly license agreements or develop non-infringing technology. Accordingly, the costs associated with intellectual property infringement claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations could expose us to additional risks and result in increased operating expense. We market, sell and service our products globally. We have established offices around the world, including in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. We have also established a major development center in India and are increasingly reliant upon overseas suppliers, particularly in Asia, for sourcing of important components and manufacturing of our products. Our increasingly global operations may result in increased risk to our business and could give rise to unanticipated expense, difficulties or other effects that could adversely affect our financial results. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the impact of economic conditions in countries outside the United States; • less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • adverse tax and customs consequences, particularly as related to transfer-pricing issues; • social, political and economic instability; • higher incidence of corruption; • trade protection measures, export compliance, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and • natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism. We expect that our international activities will be dynamic, and we may enter new markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. These changes to our international operations may require significant management attention and result in additional expense. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements for international sales of our products could impact our ability to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have a significant development center in India and, in recent years, have increased headcount and development activity at this facility. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and resulting exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and tax compliance in India. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in India could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. 24 We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies. We have entered into agreements with strategic partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies or to fulfill an element of our product portfolio. As part of our strategy to diversify our product portfolio and customer base, we may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM) or resale agreements in the future. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third party products. Our third party relationships could expose us to risks associated with delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, indemnity, service and other commercial obligations greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by our technology partners. Some of our strategic partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to the risks above could harm our reputation with key customers and negatively affect our business and our results of operations. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In the course of our sales to customers, we may have difficulty collecting receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales channel partners. A continued lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a sustained period of unfavorable economic conditions may increase our exposure to credit risks. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical and other personnel with experience in our industry is increasing in intensity, and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. With respect to our engineering resources, we may find it particularly difficult to attract and retain sufficiently skilled personnel in areas including data networking, Ethernet service delivery and network management software engineering in certain geographic markets. We may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. Because we rely upon equity awards as a significant component of compensation, particularly for our executive team, a lack of positive performance in our stock price, reduced grant levels, or changes to our compensation program may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. In addition, none of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. It may be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel, and the loss of such individuals could be disruptive to our business. Because we generally do not have employment contracts with our employees, we must rely upon providing competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment in order to retain and motivate employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Because a significant portion of our sales is denominated in U.S. dollars, an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in markets outside the United States. In addition, we face exposure to currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense in Europe, Asia and Canada. In recent years, our international operations and our reliance upon international suppliers have grown considerably. A weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials where we must purchase components in foreign currencies. As a result, we may be susceptible to negative effects of foreign exchange changes. We have previously hedged against currency exposure associated with anticipated foreign currency cash flows and may do so in the future. These hedging activities are intended to offset currency fluctuations on a portion of our non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense. There can be no assurance that these hedging instruments will be effective in all circumstances and losses associated with these instruments may negatively affect our results of operations. Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties and our business would be adversely affected if this technology was no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We integrate third-party software and other technology into our embedded operating system, network management system tools and other products. Licenses for this technology may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Third party licensors may insist on unreasonable financial or other terms in connection with our use of such technology. Difficulties with third party technology licensors could result in termination of such licenses, 25 which may result in significant costs and require us to obtain or develop a substitute technology. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining third-party technology licenses may disrupt development of our products and increase our costs, which could harm our business. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modifications may disrupt our business, operating processes and internal controls. The successful operation of various internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation of our business. If these systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced considerable growth in transaction volume, headcount and reliance upon international resources in our operations. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the growth of our business. To improve the efficiency of our operations and achieve greater automation, we routinely upgrade business processes and information systems. Significant changes to our processes and systems expose us to a number of operational risks. These changes may be costly and disruptive, and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require the modification of a number of internal control procedures. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar problems with our business processes or information systems, or the transition to new processes and systems, could have a negative effect on the operation of our business and our results of operations. Strategic acquisitions and investments may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make strategic investments in other companies to expand the markets we address, diversify our customer base or acquire or accelerate the development of technology or products. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership, incur debt or assume indebtedness. These transactions involve numerous risks, including: • significant integration costs; • integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; • the loss of key employees; • ineffective internal controls over financial reporting; • dependence on unfamiliar suppliers or manufacturers; • exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims; and • adverse tax or accounting effects including amortization expense related to intangible assets and charges associated with impairment of goodwill. As a result of these and other risks, our acquisitions or strategic investments may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Changes in government regulation affecting the communications industry and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our largest customers are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies. Changes in regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries could inhibit service providers from investing in their communications network infrastructures or introducing new services. These changes could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. Changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products, and environmental regulations relating to our products, could negatively affect our revenues. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies. Governmental regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs and restrictions on export privileges. In addition, our operations may be negatively affected by environmental regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic 26 Equipment (RoHS) that have been adopted by the European Union. Compliance with these and similar environmental regulations may increase our cost of building and selling our products, make it difficult to obtain supply of compliant components or require us to write off non-compliant inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may be required to write down long-lived assets and a significant impairment charge would adversely affect our operating results. At October 31, 2009, we had $154.7 million in long-lived assets, which includes $60.8 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. Our assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows. Given the current economic environment, uncertainties regarding the duration and severity of these conditions, forecasting future business is difficult and subject to modification. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in such period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Changes in our business will necessitate ongoing modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. Increases in our global operations or expansion into new regions could pose additional challenges to our internal control systems as these operations become more significant. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we or our independent registered public accounting firms are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer. Obligations associated with our outstanding indebtedness on our convertible notes may adversely affect our business. At October 31, 2009, indebtedness on our outstanding convertible notes totaled $798.0 million in aggregate principal. Our indebtedness and repayment obligations could have important negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly in light of unfavorable conditions in the credit markets; • reducing the availability of cash resources for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may also add additional indebtedness such as equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long-term debt. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. During fiscal 2009, our stock price ranged from a high of $16.64 per share to a low of $4.98 per share. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, with such volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts can cause significant swings in our stock price. Our stock price can also be affected by announcements that we, our competitors, or our customers may make, particularly announcements related to acquisitions or other significant transactions. Our common stock is included in a number of market indices and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company would adversely affect our stock price. On December 18, 2009, we were removed from the S&P 500, a widely-followed index. These factors, as well as conditions affecting the general economy or financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 