Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks relating to our acquisition of the MEN Business During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we completed our acquisition of the MEN Business. Business combinations of the scale and complexity of this transaction involve a high degree of risk. You should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies expected from the MEN Acquisition, which could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. The success of the MEN Acquisition will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow the combined business’s revenue and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and operating synergies from the combination. We believe that the addition of the MEN Business will accelerate the execution of our corporate and product development strategy, enable us to compete with larger equipment providers and provide opportunities to optimize our product development investment. Achieving these goals requires growth of the revenue of the MEN Business and realization of the targeted sales synergies from our combined customer bases and solutions offerings. This growth and the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than we expect. Actual operating, technological, strategic and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be less significant than we expect or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies of the MEN Acquisition within a reasonable time, our results of operations and the value of Ciena’s common stock may be adversely affected. The MEN Acquisition will result in significant integration costs and any material delays or unanticipated additional expense may harm our business and results of operations. The complexity and magnitude of the integration effort associated with the MEN Acquisition are significant and require that Ciena fund significant capital and operating expense to support the integration of the combined operations. As of October 31, 2010, we have incurred $101.4 million in transaction, consulting and third party service fees, $8.5 million in severance expense, and an additional $12.4 million, primarily related to purchases of capitalized information technology equipment. We anticipate that we may incur approximately $58.0 million in additional integration costs during fiscal 2011. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional operating expense as we build up internal resources, including headcount, facilities and information systems, or engage third party providers, while we simultaneously continue to rely upon and transition away from critical transition support services provided by an affiliate of Nortel during a transition period. In addition to these transition costs, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased expense relating to, among other things, restructuring and increased amortization of intangibles and inventory obsolescence charges. Any material delays, difficulties or unanticipated additional expense associated with integration activities may harm our business and results of operations. The integration of the MEN Business is a complex undertaking, involving a number of operational risks, and disruptions or delays could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Because of the structure of the MEN Acquisition as an asset carve out from Nortel, in a number of areas we did not acquire back-office systems and processes that support the operation of the business. The MEN Acquisition therefore requires that we build new organizations, grow Ciena’s existing infrastructure, or retain third party services to ensure business continuity and to support and scale our business. As noted below, we are currently relying upon an affiliate of Nortel to provide critical business support services for a transition period and will ultimately have to transfer these activities to internal or other third party resources. As a result, integrating the operations of the MEN Business will be extremely complex and we could encounter material disruptions, delays or unanticipated costs. Successful integration involves numerous risks, including: • assimilating product offerings and sales and marketing operations; • coordinating and implementing a combined research and development strategy; • retaining and attracting customers following a period of significant uncertainty associated with the acquired business; • diversion of management attention from business and operational matters; • identifying and retaining key personnel; • maintaining and transitioning relationships with key vendors, including component providers, manufacturers and service providers; 16 Table of Contents • integrating accounting, information technology, enterprise management and administrative systems which may be difficult or costly; • making significant cash expenditures that may be required to retain personnel or eliminate unnecessary resources; • managing tax costs or liabilities for acquired or acquiring corporate entities; • coordinating a broader and more geographically dispersed organization; • maintaining uniform standards, procedures and policies to ensure efficient and compliant administration of the organization; and • making any necessary modifications to internal control to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules and regulations. Disruptions or delays associated with these and other risks encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are relying on an affiliate of Nortel for the performance of certain critical business support services during a transition period following the closing of the MEN Acquisition and there can be no assurance that such services will be performed timely and effectively. We currently rely upon an affiliate of Nortel for certain key business support services related to the operation and continuity of the MEN Business. These services will be transferred to and taken over by our organization over time as we build up the capability and to do so. These services include key finance and accounting functions, supply chain and logistics management, maintenance and product support services, order management and fulfillment, trade compliance, and information technology services. Ciena’s administration and oversight of these transition services is complex, requires significant resources and presents issues related to the segregation of duties and information among the purchasers. These transition services are costly and we could incur approximately $94.0 million per year, if all of the transition services are used for a full year. Relying upon the transition services provider to perform critical operations and services raises a number of significant business and operational risks. The transition service provider also performs services on behalf of other purchasers of the businesses that Nortel has recently divested. There is no assurance the provider will serve as an effective support partner for all of the Nortel purchasers and we face risks associated with the provider’s ability to retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel, particularly as Ciena and other purchasers wind down support services. Ciena expects to exit critical transition services during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. The wind down and transfer to Ciena or other third parties of these critical services is a complex undertaking and may be disruptive to our business and operations. Significant disruption in business support services, the transfer of these activities to Ciena or unanticipated costs related to such services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The MEN Acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our purchase of the MEN Business may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities relating to the operation of the Nortel business. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors, including as a result of any contracts assigned to Ciena. We may also incur liabilities or claims associated with our acquisition or licensing of Nortel’s technology and intellectual property including claims of infringement. Particularly in international jurisdictions, our acquisition of the MEN Business, or our decision to independently enter new international markets where Nortel previously conducted business, could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Nortel. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The MEN Acquisition may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may harm the market price of our common stock. A number of factors, including lower than anticipated revenue and gross margin of the MEN Business, or fewer operating synergies of the combined operations, could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay any accretive effect of the MEN Acquisition. We could also encounter unanticipated or additional integration-related costs or fail to realize all of the benefits of the MEN Acquisition that underlie our financial model and expectations for future growth and profitability. These and other factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected financial benefits of the MEN Acquisition and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents The complexity of the integration and transition associated with the MEN Acquisition, together with Ciena’s increased scale and global presence, may affect our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results. We currently rely upon a combination of Ciena information systems and critical transition services provided by an affiliate of Nortel to accurately and effectively compile and report our financial results. The additional scale of our operations, together with the complexity of the integration effort, including changes to or implementation of critical information technology systems and reliance upon third party transition services, may adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis. In addition, we have had to train new employees and third party providers, and assume operations in jurisdictions where we have not previously had operations. We expect that the MEN Acquisition may necessitate significant modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems, both on a transition basis, and over the longer-term as we fully integrate the combined company. Due to the complexity of the MEN Acquisition, we cannot be certain that changes to our internal control over financial reporting during fiscal 2011 will be effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to accurately and timely report our financial results, or are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business and market perception of our financial condition may be harmed and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected. Risks related to our business and operations Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of capital expenditure by our largest customers in response to these conditions. Broad macroeconomic weakness has previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services that have adversely affected our operating results. In response to these conditions, many of our customers significantly reduced their network infrastructure expenditures as they sought to conserve capital, reduce debt or address uncertainties or changes in their own business models brought on by broader market challenges. We continue to experience cautious spending among our customers as a result of the recent period of economic weakness and remain uncertain as to how long these macroeconomic and industry conditions will continue, the pace of recovery, and the magnitude of the effect of these market conditions on our business and results of operations. Continued or increased challenging economic and market conditions could result in: • difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; • increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities; • increased pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; • higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; • increased risk of charges relating to excess and obsolete inventories and the write off of other intangible assets; and • customer financial difficulty and increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Our business and operating results could be materially affected by periods of unfavorable macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or specific to a particular region where we operate, and any resulting reductions in the level of capital expenditure by our customers. A small number of communications service providers account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among a relatively small number of communications service providers. One customer, AT&T, accounted for greater than 10% of revenue representing approximately 21.6% of fiscal 2010 revenue. Consequently, our financial results are closely correlated with the spending of a relatively small number of service providers and are significantly affected by market or industry changes that affect their businesses. The terms of our frame contracts generally do not obligate these customers to purchase any minimum or specific amounts of equipment or services. Because their spending may be unpredictable and sporadic, our revenue and operating results can fluctuate on a quarterly basis. Reliance upon a relatively small number of customers increases our exposure to changes in their network and purchasing strategies. Some of our customers are pursuing efforts to outsource the management and operation of their networks, or have indicated a procurement strategy to reduce or rationalize the number of vendors from which they purchase equipment. These strategies may present challenges to our business and could benefit our larger competitors. Our concentration in revenue has increased in recent years, in part, as a result of consolidations among a number of our largest customers. Consolidations may increase the likelihood of temporary or indefinite reductions in customer spending or changes in network strategy that could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more large service provider customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, as a result of the factors above or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of long-term future revenue and gross margin, and substantial reductions in expense are difficult and can take time to implement. Uncertainty or lack of visibility into customer spending, and changes in economic or market conditions, can make it difficult to prepare reliable estimates of future revenue and corresponding expense levels. Consequently, our level of operating expense or inventory may be high relative to our revenue, which could harm our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Given market conditions and the effect of cautious spending in recent quarters, lower levels of backlog orders and an increase in the percentage of quarterly revenue relating to orders placed in that quarter could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarterly results. Additional factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: • broader economic and market conditions affecting us and our customers; • changes in capital spending by large communications service providers; • the timing and size of orders, including our ability to recognize revenue under customer contracts; • the transition from selling legacy to next-generation technology platforms; • availability and cost of critical components; • variations in the mix between higher and lower margin products and services; and • the level of pricing pressure we encounter, particularly for our Packet-Optical Transport. Many factors affecting our results of operations are beyond our control, particularly in the case of large service provider orders and multi-vendor or multi-technology network infrastructure builds where the achievement of certain thresholds for acceptance is subject to the readiness and performance of the customer or other providers, and changes in customer requirements or installation plans. As a consequence, our results for a particular quarter may be difficult to predict, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results likely in future periods. The factors above may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may cause our stock price to decline. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations. The markets in which we compete for sales of networking equipment, software and services are extremely competitive. Competition is particularly intense in attracting large carrier customers and securing new market opportunities with existing carrier customers. In an effort to secure new or long-term customers and capture market share, in the past we have and in the future we may agree to pricing or other terms that result in negative gross margins on a particular order or group of orders. The level of competition and pricing pressure that we face increases substantially during periods of macroeconomic weakness, constrained spending or fewer network projects. As a result of these market conditions, we have experienced significant competition and increased pricing pressure, particularly for our Packet-Optical Transport products, as we and other vendors have sought to retain or grow market share. Competition in our markets, generally, is based on any one or a combination of the following factors: price, product features, functionality and performance, service offering, manufacturing capability and lead-times, incumbency and existing business relationships, scalability and the flexibility of products to meet the immediate and future network requirements of customers. A small number of very large companies have historically dominated our industry. These competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity, broader product offerings and more established relationships with service providers and other potential customers than we do. Because of their scale and resources, they may be perceived to be better positioned to offer network operating or management service for large carrier customers. We expect that the acquired products and technologies, increased market share and global presence resulting from the MEN Acquisition will only intensify the level of competition that we face, particularly from larger vendors. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly or may be more attractive to customers. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics, including: • significant price competition, particularly for our Packet-Optical Transport platforms; 19 Table of Contents • customer financing assistance; • early announcements of competing products and extensive marketing efforts; • competitors offering equity ownership positions to customers; • competitors offering to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property assertions and disputes. The tactics described above can be particularly effective in an increasingly concentrated base of potential customers such as communications service providers. If competitive pressures increase or we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our sales and profitability would suffer. Our reliance upon third party manufacturers exposes us to risks that could negatively affect our business and operations. We rely upon third party contract manufacturers to perform the majority of the manufacturing of our products and components. We do not have contracts in place with some of our manufacturers, do not have guaranteed supply of components or manufacturing capacity and in some cases are utilizing temporary or transitional commercial arrangements intended to facilitate the integration of the MEN Business. Our reliance upon third party manufacturers could expose us to increased risks related to lead times, continued supply, on-time delivery, quality assurance and compliance with environmental standards and other regulations. Reliance upon third parties manufacturers exposes us to risks related to their operations, financial position, business continuity and continued viability, which may be adversely affected by broader macroeconomic conditions and difficulties in the credit markets. In an effort to drive cost reductions, we anticipate rationalizing our supply chain and third party contract manufacturers as part of the integration of the MEN Business into Ciena’s operations. There can be no assurance that these efforts, including any consolidation or reallocation the third party sourcing and manufacturing, will not ultimately result in additional costs or disruptions in our operations and business. We may also experience difficulties as a result of geopolitical events, military actions or health pandemics in the countries where our products or critical components are manufactured. Our product manufacturing principally takes place in Mexico, Canada, Thailand and China. Thailand is undergoing a period of instability and we have in the past experienced product shipment delays associated with political turmoil in Thailand, including a blockade of its main international airport. Significant disruptions in these countries affecting supply and manufacturing capacity, or other difficulties with our contract manufacturers would negatively affect our business and results of operations. Investment of research and development resources in technologies for which there is not a matching market opportunity, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. We continually invest in research and development to sustain or enhance our existing products and develop or acquire new products technologies. Our current development efforts are focused upon the platform evolution of our CoreDirector Multiservice Optical Switch family to our ActivFlex 5400 family of Reconfigurable Switching Systems, the expansion of our ActivEdge service delivery and aggregation switches, and our 40G and 100G coherent technologies and capabilities for our Packet-Optical Transport platforms. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing a new or improved product to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the market for our products may move in directions we had not anticipated. There is no guarantee that new products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance or that the timing of market adoption will be as predicted. There is a significant possibility, therefore, that some of our development decisions, including significant expenditures on acquisitions, research and development costs, or investments in technologies, will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in some projects will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we failed to invest, or invested too late, in a technology, product or enhancement. Changes in market demand or investment priorities may also cause us to discontinue existing or planned development for new products or features, which can have a disruptive effect on our relationships with customers. These product development risks can be compounded in the context of a significant acquisition such as the MEN Business and decision making regarding our product portfolio and the significant development work required to integrate the combined product and software offerings. If we fail to make the right investments or fail to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Product performance problems could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. The development and production of highly technical and complex communications network equipment is complicated. Some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or when carrying traffic with other equipment. As a result, product performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. Our products have contained and may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects. These defects have resulted in warranty claims and additional costs to remediate. Unanticipated problems can relate to the design, manufacturing, installation or integration of our products. Performance problems and product malfunctions can also relate to defects in components, software or manufacturing services supplied by third parties. Product performance, reliability and quality problems can negatively affect our business, including: • increased costs to remediate software or hardware defects or replace products; • payment of liquidated damages or similar claims for performance failures or delays; • increased inventory obsolescence; • increased warranty expense or estimates resulting from higher failure rates, additional field service obligations or other rework costs related to defects; • delays in recognizing revenue or collecting accounts receivable; and • declining sales to existing customers and order cancellations. Product performance problems could also damage our business reputation and harm our prospects with potential customers. These consequences of product defects or quality problems, including any significant costs to remediate, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Network equipment sales to large communications service providers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume terms or conditions that negatively affect our pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain and expand our sales to large communications service providers. These sales typically involve lengthy sales cycles, protracted and sometimes difficult contract negotiations, and sales to service providers often involve extensive product testing, and demonstration laboratory or network certification, including network-specific or region-specific processes. We are sometimes required to agree to contract terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition in order to consummate a sale. During periods of macroeconomic or market weakness, these customers may request extended payment terms, vendor or third-party financing and other alternative purchase structures. These terms may, in turn, negatively affect our revenue and results of operations and increase our risk and susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our results. Service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest. Moreover, our purchase agreements generally do not require that a customer guarantee any minimum purchase level and customers often have the right to modify, delay, reduce or cancel previous orders. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential relationships that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. Difficulties with third party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, could increase our costs and harm our business and customer relationships. We depend on third party suppliers for our product components and subsystems, as well as for equipment used to manufacture and test our products. Our products include key optical and electronic components for which reliable, high-volume supply is often available only from sole or limited sources. Increases in market demand or periods of economic weakness have previously resulted in shortages in availability for important components. Unfavorable economic conditions can affect our suppliers’ liquidity level and ability to continue to invest in their business and to stock components in sufficient quantity. We have experienced increased lead times and a higher incidence of component discontinuation. These difficulties with suppliers could result in lost revenue, additional product costs and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. We do not have any guarantee of supply from these third parties, and in many cases relating to the MEN Business, are relying upon temporary or transitional commercial arrangements intended to facilitate the integration. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure the components or subsystems that we require in sufficient quantity and quality on reasonable terms. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key components, could require that we locate an alternate source or redesign our products, each of which could increase our costs and negatively affect our product gross margin and results of operations. Our business and results of operations would be negatively affected if we were to experience any significant disruption of difficulties with key suppliers affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of required components. 21 Table of Contents We may not be successful in selling our products into new markets and developing and managing new sales channels. We expanded our geographic presence significantly as a result of the MEN Acquisition, and we continue to take steps to sell our products into new geographic markets outside of our traditional markets and to a broader customer base, including other large communications service providers, enterprises, wireless operators, cable operators, submarine network operators, content providers, and federal, state and local governments. In many cases, we have less experience in these markets and customers have less familiarity with our company. To succeed in some of these markets we believe we must develop and manage new sales channels and distribution arrangements. We expect these relationships to be an important part of our business internationally as well as for sales to federal, state and local governments. Failure to manage additional sales channels effectively would limit our ability to succeed in these new markets and could adversely affect our ability to expand our customer base and grow our business. We may experience delays in the development of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. Our products are based on complex technology, and we can experience unanticipated delays in developing, manufacturing or deploying them. Each step in the development life cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could affect the cost-effective and timely development of our products. The development of our products, including the integration of the products acquired from the MEN Business into our portfolio and the development of an integrated software tool to manage the combined portfolio, present significant complexity. In addition, intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the release of these products. Delays in product development may affect our reputation with customers and the timing and level of demand for our products. If we do not develop and successfully introduce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the convergence of our product lines or unfavorable macroeconomic or industry conditions. To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture components and complete assemblies based in part on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, our inventory purchases expose us to the risk that our customers either will not order the products we have forecasted or will purchase fewer products than forecasted. Unfavorable market or industry conditions can limit visibility into customer spending plans and compound the difficulty of forecasting inventory at appropriate levels. Moreover, our customer purchase agreements generally do not guarantee any minimum purchase level, and customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. As a result, we may purchase inventory in anticipation of sales that do not occur. Historically, our inventory write-offs have resulted from the circumstances above. As features and functionalities converge across our product lines, and we introduce new products, however, we face an additional risk that customers may forego purchases of one product we have inventoried in favor of another product with similar functionality. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory, our results of operations for the period would be materially adversely affected. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have previously taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future, particularly as we seek to realize operating synergies and cost reductions associated with the MEN Acquisition. These changes could be disruptive to our business and may result in significant expense including accounting charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which we take such a charge. Our failure to manage effectively our relationships with third party service partners could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers. We rely on a number of third party service partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon these partners for certain maintenance and support functions, as well as the installation of our equipment in some large network builds. In order to ensure the proper installation and maintenance of our products, we must identify, train and certify qualified service partners. Certification can be costly and time-consuming, and our partners often provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to manage effectively our relationships with our service partners and cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required. If our service partners are unsuccessful in delivering services: • we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue; • our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and • our relationship with customers could suffer. 22 Table of Contents Difficulties with service partners could cause us to transition a larger share of deployment and other services from third parties to internal resources, thereby increasing our services overhead costs and negatively affecting our services gross margin and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce. We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our products and technology. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that our rights will provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We are subject to the risk that third parties may attempt to use our intellectual property without authorization. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, technology and other proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of such unauthorized use. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management time and resources, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain a successful result. Any inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, despite our efforts, could harm our ability to compete effectively. We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights. From time to time third parties may assert claims or initiate litigation or other proceedings related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our business. These assertions have increased over time due to our growth, the increased number of products and competitors in the communications network equipment industry and the corresponding overlaps, and the general increase in the rate of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Asserted claims, litigation or other proceedings can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights with respect our existing or future products and technology or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, divert the time and attention of our technical and management personnel, and result in costly litigation. These claims, if successful, can require us to: • pay substantial damages or royalties; • comply with an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain of our products; • seek a license for the use of certain intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful; and • indemnify our customers pursuant to contractual obligations and pay damages on their behalf. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the steps taken to safeguard against the risks of infringing the rights of third parties. Our international operations could expose us to additional risks and expense and adversely affect our results of operations. We market, sell and service our products globally and rely upon a global supply chain for sourcing of important components and manufacturing of our products. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the impact of economic conditions in countries outside the United States; • less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • adverse tax and customs consequences, particularly as related to transfer-pricing issues; • social, political and economic instability; • higher incidence of corruption; 23 Table of Contents • trade protection measures, export compliance, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and • natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism. We expect that we may enter new markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements could adversely affect our business and operations. Our global operations may result in increased risk and expense to our business and could give rise to unanticipated liabilities or difficulties that could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have a significant development center in India and, in recent years, have increased headcount and development activity at this facility. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; • exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property and proprietary information; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, regulatory, security and political conditions of India; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and tax compliance in India. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in India could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies. We have entered into agreements with strategic partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We may rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies, diversify our product portfolio, or address a particular customer or geographic market. We may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resale or similar strategic arrangements in the future, including in support of our selection as a domain supply partner with AT&T. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third party products. Our third party relationships could expose us to risks associated with the business and viability of such partners, as well as delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, indemnity, service and other commercial obligations greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by our technology partners. Some of our strategic partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to these risks could harm our reputation with key customers and negatively affect our business and our results of operations. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In the course of our sales to customers, we may have difficulty collecting receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales channel partners. Lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a sustained period of unfavorable economic conditions may increase our exposure to credit risks. Our attempts to monitor these situations carefully and take appropriate measures to protect ourselves may not be sufficient, and it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical, engineering and other personnel with experience in our industry is intense and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. We may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. Because we rely upon equity awards as a significant component of compensation, particularly for our executive team, a lack of positive performance in our stock price, reduced grant levels, or changes to our compensation program may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. It may be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel, and the loss of such individuals could be disruptive to our business. In addition, none of our executive officers is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively and our operations and results of operations could suffer. 24 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Historically, our sales have primarily been denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result of our increased global presence, a larger percentage of our revenue is now non-U.S. dollar denominated and therefore subject to foreign currency fluctuation. In addition, we face exposure to currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada. We have previously hedged against currency exposure associated with anticipated foreign currency cash flows and may do so in the future. There can be no assurance that these hedging instruments will be effective and losses associated with these instruments and the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may negatively affect our results of operations. Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties and our business would be adversely affected if this technology was no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We integrate third-party software and other technology into our embedded operating system, network management system tools and other products. Licenses for this technology may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Third party licensors may insist on unreasonable financial or other terms in connection with our use of such technology. Difficulties with third party technology licensors could result in termination of such licenses, which may result in significant costs and require us to obtain or develop a substitute technology. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining third-party technology licenses may disrupt development of our products and increase our costs, which could harm our business. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modifications may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. The successful operation of various internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation of our business. If these systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the integration of the MEN Business and future growth of our business. The integration of the MEN Business and transfer of business support services being performed under the transition services agreement will require significant modifications relating to our internal business processes and information systems. Significant changes to our processes and systems expose us to a number of operational risks. These changes may be costly and disruptive, and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require the modification of a number of internal control procedures and significant training of employees. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar problems with our business processes or information systems, or the transition to new processes and systems, could have a negative effect on the operation of our business and our results of operations. Strategic acquisitions and investments may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make investments in other technology companies, or enter into other strategic relationships, to expand the markets we address, diversify our customer base or acquire or accelerate the development of technology or products. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership, or incur debt or assume indebtedness. These transactions involve numerous risks, including: • significant integration costs; • disruption due to the integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; • the loss of key employees; • ineffective internal controls over financial reporting; • dependence on unfamiliar suppliers or manufacturers; • exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims; and • adverse tax or accounting effects including amortization expense related to intangible assets and charges associated with impairment of goodwill. As a result of these and other risks, our acquisitions, investments or strategic transactions may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation affecting the communications industry and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our largest customers are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies. Changes in regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries could inhibit service providers from investing in their communications network infrastructures or introducing new services. These changes could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. Changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Governmental regulations affecting the use, import or export of products could negatively affect our revenue. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, license requirements and other restrictions on the usage, import or export of some of the technologies that we sell. Governmental regulation of usage, import or export of our products, or our failure to obtain required approvals for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenue and costs of sales. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in enforcement actions, fines or penalties and restrictions on export privileges. In addition, costly tariffs on our equipment, restrictions on importation, trade protection measures and domestic preference requirements of certain countries could limit our access to these markets and harm our sales. For example, India’s government has recently implemented certain rules applicable to non-Indian network equipment vendors and is considering further restrictions that may inhibit sales of certain communications equipment, including equipment manufactured in China, where certain of our products are assembled. These and other regulations could adversely affect the sale or use of our products and could adversely affect our business and revenue. Governmental regulations related to the environment and potential climate change, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change. We could incur fines, costs related to damage to property or personal injury, and costs related to investigation or remediation activities, if we were to violate or become liable under these laws or regulations. Our product design efforts, and the manufacturing of our products, are also subject to evolving requirements relating to the presence of certain materials or substances in our equipment, including regulations that make producers for such products financially responsible for the collection, treatment and recycling of certain products. For example, our operations and financial results may be negatively affected by environmental regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) that have been adopted by the European Union. Compliance with these and similar environmental regulations may increase our cost of designing, manufacturing, selling and removing our products. These regulations may also make it difficult to obtain supply of compliant components or require us to write off non-compliant inventory, which could have an adverse effect our business and operating results. We may be required to write down long-lived assets and these impairment charges would adversely affect our operating results. As of October 31, 2010, our balance sheet includes $600.4 million in long-lived assets, which includes $426.4 million of intangible assets. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows. Given the significant uncertainty and instability of macroeconomic conditions in recent periods, forecasting future business is difficult and subject to modification. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in such period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Changes in our business, including the MEN Acquisition, will necessitate modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. Our increased global operations and expansion into new regions could pose additional challenges to our internal control systems. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, or any additional changes to be made during fiscal 2011, will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls 26 Table of Contents are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer. Outstanding indebtedness under our convertible notes may adversely affect our business. At October 31, 2010, indebtedness on our outstanding convertible notes totaled approximately $1.4 billion in aggregate principal. Our indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly in light of unfavorable conditions in the credit markets; • reducing the availability of cash resources for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may also add additional indebtedness such as equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long-term debt. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. During fiscal 2010, our closing stock price ranged from a high of $19.24 per share to a low of $10.67 per share. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, with such volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts can cause significant swings in our stock price. Our stock price can also be affected by announcements that we, our competitors, or our customers may make, particularly announcements related to acquisitions or other significant transactions. Our common stock is included in a number of market indices and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company would adversely affect our stock price. On December 18, 2009, we were removed from the S&P 500, a widely-followed index. These factors, as well as conditions affecting the general economy or financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 