Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Our ability to grow our business and increase revenue depends upon continued growth of communications network traffic and the adoption of communications services and applications by enterprise and consumer end users. We have experienced considerable annual revenue growth over the past two fiscal years, in part, due to growing demand and improved conditions in our markets. The growth of our business and revenue is dependent upon a number of market factors, including the continued growth of communications network traffic and increased reliance by consumers and businesses upon high-capacity communications services. We believe our business has benefitted from increases in the amount of data transmitted over communications networks and the desire among service providers to address capacity needs and offer additional consumer and enterprise services over more efficient, economical network architectures. There is no assurance that that these improved market conditions or our success in competing in these markets will continue. If growth in demand for bandwidth, or the adoption of new communications services, does not continue, or slows, the growth of our business and our revenues would be negatively impacted. A small number of communications service provider customers account for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue has become increasingly concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. AT&T accounted for 25.3%, and Sprint for 12.8% of our fiscal 2007 revenue. The loss of, or significant reductions in spending by, one or more of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our increased concentration in revenue has been affected, in part, by consolidations among a number of our largest customers. These consolidations have resulted in increased concentration of customer purchasing power, which in turn may lead to constraints on pricing, fluctuations in revenue, increases in costs to meet demands of large customers and pressure to accept onerous contract terms. Consolidation may result in fewer opportunities to participate in larger network builds and could increase our exposure to changes in customer network strategy and reductions in customer capital expenditures. In addition, because a significant part of our revenue remains concentrated among telecommunications service providers, our business could be exposed to risks associated with a market-wide change in business prospects, competitive pressures or other conditions affecting our carrier customers. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and profitability. The markets in which we compete for sales of networking equipment, software and services are extremely competitive, particularly the market for sales to communications service providers. Competition in these markets is based on any one or a combination of the following factors: price, product features and functionality, manufacturing capability and lead-times, incumbency and existing business relationships, scalability and the ability of products to meet the immediate and future network requirements of customers. A small number of very large companies has historically dominated our industry. These competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity and better established relationships with telecommunications carriers and other potential customers than we do. Recent consolidation activity among large networking equipment providers has caused some of our competitors to grow even larger, which may increase their strategic advantages. In 2006, Alcatel acquired Lucent, Nokia and Siemens combined their communications service provider businesses to create a new joint venture, and Ericsson acquired certain telecommunications business assets of Marconi. These transactions may adversely affect our competitive position. We also compete with a number of smaller companies that provide significant competition for a specific product, application, customer segment or geographic market. These competitors often base their products on the latest available technologies. Due to the narrower focus of their efforts, these competitors may achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly and may be more attractive to customers. Increased competition in our markets has resulted in aggressive business tactics, including: • “one-stop shopping” options; • significant price competition, particularly from competitors in Asia; • customer financing assistance; • early announcements of competing products and extensive marketing efforts; 13 • competitors offering equity ownership positions to customers; • competitors offering to repurchase our equipment from existing customers; • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property assertions and disputes. The tactics described above can be particularly effective in an increasingly concentrated base of potential customers such as telecommunications service providers. If we fail to compete successfully in our markets, our sales and profitability would suffer. Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Our revenue can fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Any substantial adjustment to expense in order to account for lower levels of revenue is difficult and takes time. Consequently, if our revenue declines, our levels of inventory, operating expense and general overhead would be high relative to revenue, and this could result in operating losses. Other factors contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, including: • the level of demand for our products and the timing and size of customer orders, particularly from large telecommunications carrier customers; • satisfaction of contractual acceptance criteria and related revenue recognition requirements; • delays, changes to or cancellation of orders from customers; • the effects of consolidation of our customers, including increased exposure to any changes in network strategy and reductions in customer capital expenditures; • the availability of an adequate supply of components and sufficient manufacturing capacity; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • readiness of customer sites for installation; and • changes in general economic conditions as well as those specific to our market segments. Many of these factors are beyond our control, particularly in the case of large carrier orders and multi-vendor or multi-technology network infrastructure builds where the achievement of certain performance thresholds for acceptance is subject to the readiness and performance of the customer or other providers, and changes in customer requirements or installation plans. As a consequence, our revenue and operating results for a particular quarter may be difficult to predict and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results likely in future periods. Any one or a combination of the factors above may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our gross margin may fluctuate from quarter to quarter which may adversely affect our level of profitability. Our gross margin fluctuates from quarter to quarter and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • customer, product and service mix in any period; • the effect of our services gross margin, which is generally lower than our product gross margin; • sales volume during the period; • increased price competition; • charges for excess or obsolete inventory; • changes in the price or availability of components for our products; 14 • our ability to continue to reduce product manufacturing costs; • introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher production costs; and • increased warranty or repair costs. The factors that contribute to fluctuations in revenue and operating results can also significantly affect our gross margin. Fluctuations in gross margin may affect our level of profitability in any period. As a consequence, our gross margin for a particular quarter may be difficult to predict, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results likely in future periods. Network equipment sales to large communications service providers often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations and may require us to assume terms or conditions that negatively affect our pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain and expand our sales to large communications service providers. These sales typically involve lengthy sales cycles, protracted or difficult contract negotiations, and extensive product testing and network certification. We are sometimes required to assume contract terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition in order to consummate a sale. These terms may, in turn, negatively affect our revenue and results of operations and increase our susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our results. Communications service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest. Moreover, our purchase agreements generally do not require that a customer guarantee any minimum purchase level and customers often have the right to modify, delay, reduce or cancel previous orders. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and devote time and resources to potential relationships that never materialize or result in lower than anticipated sales. Investment of research and development resources in technologies for which there is not a matching market opportunity, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market for communications networking equipment is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies and changes in market demand. To succeed in this market, we are continually investing research and development resources into the enhancement of our existing products, the creation of new products and the development or acquisition of new technologies. There is often a lengthy period between commencing these development initiatives and bringing the new or revised product to market, and, during this time, technology or the market may move in directions we had not anticipated. There is a significant possibility, therefore, that at least some of our development decisions will not turn out as anticipated, and that our investment in a project will be unprofitable. There is also a possibility that we may miss a market opportunity because we fail to invest, or invest too late, in a new product or an enhancement of an existing product that could have been highly profitable. Changes in the market may also cause us to discontinue previously planned investments in products, which can have a disruptive effect on relationships with customers that were anticipating the availability of a new product or feature. If we fail to make the right investments and to make them at the right time, our competitive position may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be harmed. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies. We have entered into agreements with strategic partners that permit us to distribute their products or technology. We rely upon these relationships to add complementary products or technologies or to fulfill an element of our product portfolio. As part of our strategy to diversify our product portfolio and customer base, we may enter into additional original equipment manufacturer (OEM) or resale agreements in the future. We may incur unanticipated costs or difficulties relating to our resale of third party products. Our third party relationships could expose us to risks associated with delays in their development, manufacturing or delivery of products or technology. We may also be required by customers to assume warranty, service and other commercial obligations greater than the commitments, if any, made to us by these technology partners. Some of our strategic partners are relatively small companies with limited financial resources. If they are unable to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, we may have to expend our own resources to satisfy these obligations. Exposure to the risks above could harm our reputation with key customers and negatively affect our business and our results of operations. 15 Product performance problems could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. The development and production of equipment that addresses rapidly growing, multi-service communications network traffic is complicated. Due to their complexity, some of our products can be fully tested only when deployed in communications networks or with other equipment. As a result, new products or product enhancements can contain undetected hardware or software errors at the time of release. We have introduced new or upgraded products recently and expect to continue to enhance and extend our product portfolio. Product performance problems are often more acute for initial deployments of new products and product enhancements. Unanticipated problems can relate to the design, manufacturing, installation or integration of our products. If we experience significant performance, reliability or quality problems with our products, or our customers suffer significant network restoration delays relating to these problems, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including: • increased costs to address software or hardware defects; • payment of liquidated damages or claims for damages for performance failures or delays; • increased inventory obsolescence and warranty expense; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • cancellation or reduction in orders from customers; and • damage to our reputation or legal actions by customers or end users. Product performance problems could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our business and results of operations. We may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices, the convergence of our product lines and our supplier transitions. To avoid delays and meet customer demand for shorter delivery terms, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture components and complete assemblies based on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, our inventory purchases expose us to the risk that our customers either will not order those products for which we have forecasted sales or will purchase fewer than the number of products we have forecasted. Our purchase agreements generally do not require that a customer guarantee any minimum purchase level, and customers often have the right to modify, reduce or cancel purchase quantities. As a result, we may purchase inventory based on forecasted sales and in anticipation of purchases that never come to fruition. Historically, our inventory write-offs have resulted from the circumstances above. As features and functionalities converge across our product lines, however, we face an increased risk that customers may elect to forego purchases of one product we have inventoried in favor of purchasing another product with similar functionality or application. We may be exposed to write-offs due to significant inventory purchases that we deem necessary as we transition from one supplier to another, or resulting from a supplier’s decision to discontinue the manufacture of certain components. We may also be required to write off inventory as a result of the effect of evolving domestic and international environmental regulations. If we are required to write off or write down a significant amount of inventory due to the factors above or otherwise, our results of operations for the period would be materially adversely affected. Shortages in component supply or manufacturing capacity could increase our costs, adversely affect our results of operations and constrain our ability to grow our business. As we have expanded our use of contract manufacturers, broadened our product portfolio and increased sales volume in recent years, manufacturing capacity and supply constraints have become increasingly significant issues for us. We have encountered component shortages that have affected our operations and ability to deliver products in a timely manner. Growth in customer demand for the communications networking products supplied by us, our competitors and other third parties, has resulted in supply constraints among providers of some components used in our products. In addition, environmental regulations, such as RoHS, have resulted in, and may continue to give rise to, increased demand for compliant components. As a result, we may experience delays or difficulty obtaining compliant components from suppliers. Component shortages and manufacturing capacity constraints may also arise, or be exacerbated by difficulties with our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or our failure to adequately forecast our component or manufacturing needs. If shortages or delays occur or persist, the price of required components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. If we are unable to secure the components or subsystems that we require at reasonable prices, or are unable to secure adequate manufacturing capacity, we may experience delivery delays and may be unable to satisfy our contractual obligations to customers. These delays may cause us to incur liquidated damages to customers and negatively affect our revenue and gross margin. Shortages in component supply or manufacturing capacity could also limit our opportunities to pursue additional growth or revenue opportunities and could harm our business reputation and customer relationships. 16 We may not be successful in selling our products into new markets and developing and managing new sales channels. We continue to take steps to sell our expanded product portfolio into new geographic markets and to a broader customer base, including enterprises, cable operators, wireless operators and federal, state and local governments. We have less experience in these markets and believe, in order to succeed in these markets, we must develop and manage new sales channels and distribution arrangements. We expect these relationships to be an increasingly important part of the growth of our business and our efforts to increase revenue. We may not be successful in reaching additional customer segments or expanding into new geographic regions and may be exposed to increased expense and business and financial risks associated with entering new markets and pursuing new customer segments. We may expend time, money and other resources on channel relationships that are ultimately unsuccessful. In addition, sales to federal, state and local governments require compliance with complex procurement regulations with which we have little experience. We may be unable to increase our sales to government contractors if we determine that we cannot comply with applicable regulations. Our failure to comply with regulations for existing contracts could result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines and suspension, or exclusion from participation in federal government contracts. Failure to manage additional sales channels effectively would limit our ability to succeed in these new markets and could adversely affect our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. We may experience delays in the development and enhancement of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance existing product platforms by adding new features and functionality and introduce new products. Because our products are based on complex technology, we can experience unanticipated delays in developing, improving, manufacturing or deploying them. Each step in the development life cycle of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could decrease the timing and cost-effective development of such products and could affect customer acceptance of such products. Unexpected intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements, and other execution risks may delay or even prevent the introduction of these products. Our development efforts may also be affected, particularly in the near term, by the transfer of some of our research and development activity to our facility in India. Modification of research and development strategies and changes in allocation of resources could also be disruptive to our development efforts. If we do not develop and successfully introduce products in a timely manner, our competitive position may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We must manage our relationships with contract manufacturers effectively to ensure that our manufacturing and production requirements are met. We rely on contract manufacturers to perform the majority of the manufacturing operations for our products and components and we are increasingly utilizing overseas suppliers, particularly in Asia. The qualification of our contract manufacturers is a costly and time-consuming process, and these manufacturers build products for other companies, including our competitors. We are constantly reviewing our manufacturing capability, including the work of our contract manufacturers, to ensure that our production requirements are met in terms of cost, capacity, quality and reliability. From time to time, we may decide to transfer the manufacturing of a product from one contract manufacturer to another, to better meet our production needs. Efforts to transfer to a new contract manufacturer or consolidate our use of suppliers may result in temporary increases in inventory volumes purchased in order to ensure continued supply. We may not effectively manage these contract manufacturer transitions, and our new contract manufacturers may not perform as well as expected. Our reliance upon contract manufacturers could also expose us to risks that could harm our business related to difficulties with lead times, on-time delivery, quality assurance and product changes required to meet evolving environmental standards and regulations. These risks can result in strategic harm to our business, including delays affecting our time to market for new or enhanced products. In addition, we do not have contracts in place with some of these providers and do not have guaranteed supply of components or manufacturing capacity. Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers, particularly overseas, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We depend on sole and limited source suppliers for some of our product components and the loss of a source, or a lack of availability of key components, could increase our costs and harm our customer relationships. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our product components and subsystems, as well as for equipment used to manufacture and test our products. Our products include several components for which reliable, high-volume suppliers are particularly limited. Some key optical and electronic components we use in our products are currently available only from sole or limited sources. As a result of this concentration in our supply chain, particularly for optical components, our business would be negatively affected if our suppliers were to experience any significant disruption in their operations affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of components. Concentration in our supply chain can exacerbate our exposure to risks associated with vendors’ discontinuing the manufacture of certain components for our products. The loss of a source of supply, or lack of sufficient availability of key components, could require us to redesign products that use those components, which would increase our costs and negatively affect our product gross margin. The partial or complete loss of a sole or limited source supplier could result in lost revenue, added costs and deployment delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. 17 Our failure to manage our relationships with service delivery partners effectively could adversely impact our financial results and relationship with customers. We rely on a number of service delivery partners, both domestic and international, to complement our global service and support resources. We rely upon third party service delivery partners for the installation of our equipment in some large network builds. These projects often include onerous customization, installation, testing and acceptance terms. In order to ensure the timely installation of our products and satisfaction of obligations to our customers, we must identify, train and certify our partners. The certification of these partners can be costly and time-consuming, and these partners provide similar services for other companies, including our competitors. We may not be able to effectively manage our relationships with our partners and cannot be certain that they will be able to deliver services in the manner or time required. If our service partners are unsuccessful in delivering services: • we may suffer delays in recognizing revenue; • our services revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected; and • our relationship with customers could suffer. Difficulties with service delivery partners could cause us to transition a larger share of deployment and other services from third parties to internal resources, thereby increasing our service overhead costs and negatively affecting our services gross margin and results of operations. We may incur significant costs and our competitive position may suffer as a result of our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or respond to claims of infringement from others. Our business is dependent upon the successful protection of our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We are subject to the risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to access, copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology, particularly as we expand our product development into India and increase our reliance upon contract manufacturers in Asia. These and other international operations could expose us to a lower level of intellectual property protection than in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we are taking will prevent or minimize the risks of unauthorized use. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. In recent years, we have filed suit to enforce our intellectual property rights. From time to time we have also been subject to litigation and other third party intellectual property claims, including as a result of our indemnification obligations to customers or resellers that purchase our products. The frequency of these assertions is increasing as patent holders, including entities that are not in our industry and that purchase patents as an investment or to monetize such rights by obtaining royalties, use infringement assertions as a competitive tactic and a source of additional revenue. Intellectual property claims can significantly divert the time and attention of our personnel and result in costly litigation. Intellectual property infringement claims can also require us to pay substantial damages or royalties, enter into costly license agreements or develop non-infringing technology. Accordingly, the costs associated with third party intellectual property claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations could expose us to additional risks and result in increased operating expense. We market, sell and service our products globally. We have established offices around the world, including in North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. We have also established a major development center in India and are increasingly relying upon overseas suppliers, particularly in Asia, for sourcing of components and contract manufacturing of our products. We expect that our international activities will be dynamic in the near term, and we may enter new markets and withdraw from or reduce operations in others. These changes to our international operations may require significant management attention and result in additional expense. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. Our inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements for international sales of our products could impact our ability to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the impact of economic changes in countries outside the United States; 18 • less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • adverse tax and customs consequences, particularly as related to transfer-pricing issues; • social, political and economic instability; • trade protection measures, export compliance, qualification to transact business and other regulatory requirements; and • natural disasters and epidemics. These and other factors related to our international operations may result in increased risk to our business and could give rise to unanticipated expense or other effects that could adversely affect our financial results. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have established a development center in India and expect to continue to increase hiring of personnel for this facility. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India; • fluctuation in currency exchange rates and tax risks associated with international operations; and • development efforts that do not meet our requirements because of language, cultural or other differences associated with international operations, resulting in errors or delays. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in India could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In the course of our sales to customers, we may have difficulty collecting receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts. We may be exposed to similar risks relating to third party resellers and other sales channel partners. While we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves, it is possible that we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Efforts to restructure our operations and align our resources with market opportunities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. Over the last several years, we have taken steps, including reductions in force, office closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future to improve efficiency and match our resources with market opportunities. Any such changes could be disruptive to our business and may result in the recording of accounting charges. These include inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. If we are required to take a substantial charge related to any future restructuring activities, our results of operations would be adversely affected in the period in which we take such a charge. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. Competition to attract and retain highly skilled technical and other personnel with experience in our industry is increasing in intensity, and our employees have been the subject of targeted hiring by our competitors. We may experience difficulty retaining and motivating existing employees and attracting qualified personnel to fill key positions. It may be difficult to replace members of our management team or other key personnel, and the loss of such individuals could be disruptive to our business. Because we generally do not have employment contracts with our employees, we must rely upon providing competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment in order to retain and motivate employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. 19 We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. To date, we have not significantly hedged against foreign currency fluctuations. Historically, our primary exposure to currency exchange rates has been related to non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expense in Europe, Asia and Canada where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. With the growth of our international headcount, we have witnessed increases in operating expense resulting from the weakening of the U.S. dollar. We expect these risks to continue as we further increase headcount in India. As we increase our international sales and utilization of international suppliers, we may transact additional business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we will be subject to the possibility of greater effects of foreign exchange translation on our financial statements. For those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales, a devaluation in the local currency would make our products more expensive for customers to purchase or increase our operating costs, thereby adversely affecting our competitiveness. There can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our revenue from international sales and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. Strategic acquisitions and investments may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. We may acquire or make strategic investments in other companies to expand the markets we address and diversify our customer base. We may also engage in these transactions to acquire or accelerate the development of technology or products. To do so, we may use cash, issue equity that would dilute our current shareholders’ ownership, incur debt or assume indebtedness. These transactions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulty integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulty completing projects of the acquired company and costs related to in-process projects; • the loss of key employees of the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets and charges associated with impairment of goodwill; • ineffective internal controls over financial reporting; • dependence on unfamiliar supply partners; and • exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including intellectual property infringement claims. As a result of these and other risks, any acquisitions or strategic investments may not reap the intended benefits and may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Changes in government regulation could lead our customers to reduce investment in their communications networks which would reduce the size of our market and could adversely affect our business. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the U.S. communications industry and similar agencies have jurisdiction over the communication industries in other countries. Many of our most important customers are subject to the rules and regulations of these agencies. Changes in regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries could inhibit service providers from investing in their communications network infrastructures and thus could adversely affect the sale of our products. Changes in regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communications networks could slow the expansion of network infrastructures and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The investment of our substantial cash balance and our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At October 31, 2007, we had $892.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and $856.1 million in investments in marketable debt securities. We have historically invested these amounts in corporate bonds, asset-backed obligations, commercial paper, securities issued by the United States, certificates of deposit and money market funds meeting certain 20 criteria. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we determined that declines in the fair value of certain of our investments in commercial paper issued by two structured investment vehicles (SIVs) were other-than-temporary. Each of these SIVs entered receivership during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and subsequently failed to make payment at maturity. As of October 31, 2007, we recognized realized losses of $13.0 million related to these investments and estimated the fair value of these investments at $33.9 million. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Investments” in Item 7 of Part II of this report for more information about this loss and our determination of the fair value of these investments at October 31, 2007. We may recognize further realized losses in the fair value of these investments or a complete loss of these investments. Additional losses would have a negative effect on our net income. Information and the markets relating to investments that hold mortgage-related assets as collateral remain dynamic. There may be further declines in the value of these investments and the value of the collateral held by these entities. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of other investments. In addition, should our other investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We may be required to take further write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of October 31, 2007, we had $232.0 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. This amount primarily represents the remaining excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At October 31, 2007, we had $67.1 million of other intangible assets on our balance sheet. The amount primarily reflects purchased technology from our acquisitions. At October 31, 2007, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately 12.4% of our total assets. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $176.6 million and an impairment of other intangibles of $45.7 million. If we are required to record additional impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, such charges would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in such period. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. Growth of our business, including our broader product portfolio and increased transaction volume, will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. Our increasingly global operations, including our development facility in India and offices abroad, will pose additional challenges to our internal control systems as their operations become more significant. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we or our independent registered public accounting firms are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and customer perception of our business may suffer. Obligations associated with our outstanding indebtedness on our convertible notes may adversely affect our business. At October 31, 2007, indebtedness on our outstanding convertible notes totaled $1.3 billion in aggregate principal, of which $542.3 million in aggregate principal amount on our 3.75% convertible notes becomes due and payable on February 1, 2008. Our indebtedness and repayment obligations could have important negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • reducing the availability of cash resources for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may also add additional indebtedness such as equipment loans, working capital lines of credit and other long term debt. 21 Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our information systems and upgrading these systems may result in disruption to our business, operating processes and internal controls. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on the successful operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to process financial information, manage inventory and administer our sales transactions. In an effort to improve the efficiency of our operations, achieve greater automation and support the growth of our business, we are in the process of upgrading certain information systems and have recently implemented a new version of our Oracle management information system. We anticipate that we will have to modify a number of operational processes and internal control procedures as a result of this upgrade. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar problems with our information systems could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations in the period affected. In addition, in recent years, we have experienced considerable growth in transaction volume, headcount and reliance upon international resources in our operations. Our information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the continued growth of our operations and the efficient management of our business. If our information system resources are inadequate, we may be required to undertake costly upgrades and the growth of our business could be harmed. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility can arise as a result of a number of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts, and announcements that we, our competitors, or our customers may make. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 