ITEM 1A: Risk Factors The Company has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces. While the Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss. Set out below are the key risk factors, associated with the business, that have been identified through the Company's approach to risk management. Some of these risk factors are specific to the Company, and others are more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry in which the Company operates. The Company considers that these risk factors apply equally and, therefore, these risks should all be carefully considered before any investment is made in Shire. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS VYVANSE and the Company’s other new products may not be a commercial success The commercial success of the Company’s new products will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key decision-makers, as well as the timing of the receipt of marketing approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product’s label, the countries in which such approvals are obtained, the authorization of price and reimbursement in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products. In particular, the Company anticipates that there will be one or more generic competitors of ADDERALL XR in the ADHD market beginning April 2009. The Company expects that sales of VYVANSE will partially offset any decline in sales of ADDERALL XR and that VYVANSE prescriptions will come from a number of sources, including patients who are new to ADHD treatment, patients who previously were taking ADDERALL XR, and patients who were taking another ADHD medication. The Company may not be able to transition patients successfully from ADDERALL XR or other ADHD medications to VYVANSE, especially if any or all of the following occur: · if physicians who are comfortable with an existing product are unwilling to prescribe a new product in its place; · if patients who are comfortable with an existing product do not wish to take a new product in its place; · if parents or caregivers who are comfortable with an existing product do not want their children to take a new product in its place; · if third-party payers are unwilling to pay for a new product; · if the sales and marketing efforts behind VYVANSE are not effective in positioning VYVANSE and differentiating it from ADDERALL XR; · if the FDA approved label for VYVANSE is not seen as significantly differentiating VYVANSE from currently marketed treatments for ADHD; · if competitive products are genericised and the impact on the market negatively affects the prescribing of branded treatments for ADHD; · if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the product not seen in clinical trials that impact the physician’s willingness to prescribe VYVANSE; · if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post marketing purposes or for registration in another country or regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that causes concern for prescribers or patients in another country; or · if the supply of amphetamine salts is restricted due to DEA quota restrictions or because of issues experienced in the supply chain by Shire or third party agents. Further, if VYVANSE is not a commercial success, Shire will not experience the anticipated economic benefits from VYVANSE or from its acquisition of New River. If the Company is unable to commercialize VYVANSE or any other new product successfully, there may be an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Any decrease in the combined sales of VYVANSE and ADDERALL XR will significantly reduce revenues and earnings In 2007, sales of VYVANSE and ADDERALL XR were $1,107.4 million, representing approximately 45% of the Company's total revenues. Any factors that decrease the combined sales of VYVANSE and ADDERALL XR could significantly reduce revenue and earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. These include: · development and marketing of competitive pharmaceuticals, including generic versions of ADDERALL XR which the Company anticipates will be in the market from April 2009; · issues impacting the production of VYVANSE or ADDERALL XR or the supply of amphetamine salts including but not limited to the ability to get sufficient quota from the DEA; · technological advances (including the approval of new competing products for ADHD treatments); · loss of patent protection or ability of competitors to challenge or circumvent the Company's patents (See ITEM 3 of this Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation); · changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; · government action/intervention; · marketing or pricing actions by competitors; · public opinion towards ADHD treatments; · any change in the label or other such regulatory intervention; · product liability claims; and · changes in prescription-writing practices. Any decrease in the sales of 3TC could significantly reduce earnings The Company receives royalties from GSK on the worldwide sales of 3TC. In 2007, the Company's royalty income relating to 3TC sales was $145.3 million. This income stream generates a larger proportion of net income relative to the Company's own product sales as there are minimal costs associated with this income. Any factors that decrease sales of 3TC by GSK could significantly reduce the Company's earnings. These include: · development and marketing of competitive pharmaceuticals, including generic versions; · loss of patent protection or ability of competitors to challenge or circumvent patents (see Item 3 of this Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation); · reduction in the production of 3TC; · technological advances; · government action/intervention; · marketing or pricing actions by GSK's competitors; · any change in the label or other such regulatory intervention; · public opinion towards AIDS treatments; and · product liability claims. The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payers in a timely manner for certain of the Company's products and parallel importation may impact future revenues and earnings The Company's revenues are partly dependent on the level of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental reimbursement schemes for pharmaceutical products. Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Company's sales, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of treatment established by health care providers, private health insurers and other organisations, such as health maintenance organisations and managed care organisations are under downward pressure and this, in turn, could impact on the prices at which the Company can sell its products. 29 The market for pharmaceutical products could be significantly influenced by the following, which could result in lower prices for the Company's products and/or a reduced demand for the Company's products: · the ongoing trend toward managed health care, particularly in the United States; · legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Company's markets; or · price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic and therapeutic rationales are not established. The prices for certain of the Company's products when commercialised, including, in particular, products for the treatment of rare genetic diseases such as REPLAGAL and ELAPRASE, may be high compared to other pharmaceutical products. The Company may encounter particular difficulty in obtaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for its products, including those that are likely to have a high annual cost of therapy. The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for such products may adversely affect revenues and earnings. Parallel importation occurs when an importer finds a cheaper price for a product or equivalent product on the world market and imports that product from the lower price jurisdiction to the higher price jurisdiction. If the parallel importation of lower priced drugs is permitted in the United States, it could have the effect of reducing sales of equivalent drugs in the United States. To the extent that parallel importation increases, the Company may receive less revenue and earnings from its commercialised products. The parallel importation of prescription drugs is relatively common within the EU. A disruption to the product supply chain may result in the Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product or may result in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis The Company has its own manufacturing capability for certain products and has also entered into supply agreements with third party contract manufacturers. In the event of either the Company's failure or the failure of any third party contract manufacturer to comply with mandatory manufacturing standards (often referred to as ‘Current Good Manufacturing Standards’ or cGMP) in the countries in which the Company intends to sell or have its products sold, the Company may experience a delay in supply or be unable to market or develop its products. The Company dual-sources certain key products and/or active ingredients. However, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for each of DAYTRANA, DYNEPO, ELAPRASE, LIALDA, PENTASA, REMINYL and XAGRID and relies on a single active ingredient source for each of DYNEPO, ELAPRASE, FOSRENOL, REMINYL, REPLAGAL and XAGRID. In the event of financial failure of a third party contract manufacturer, the Company may experience a delay in supply or be unable to market or develop its products. This could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that suppliers will continue to supply on commercially viable terms, or be able to supply components that meet regulatory requirements. The Company is also subject to the risk that suppliers will not be able to meet the quantities needed to meet market requirements The development and approval of the Company's products depends on the ability to procure active ingredients and special packaging materials from sources approved by regulatory authorities. As the marketing approval process requires manufacturers to specify their own proposed suppliers of active ingredients and special packaging materials in their applications, regulatory approval of a new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the supplier specified in the marketing approval. The need to qualify a new supplier could delay the Company's development and commercialisation efforts. The Company uses bovine-derived serum sourced from New Zealand and North America in the manufacturing processes for REPLAGAL and ELAPRASE. The discovery of additional cattle in North America or the discovery of cattle in New Zealand with bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, could cause the regulatory agencies in some countries to impose restrictions on these products, or prohibit the Company from using these products at all in such countries. 30 The actions of certain customers can affect the Company's ability to sell or market products profitably, as well as impact net sales and growth comparisons A small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the United States and European markets. In 2007, for example, approximately 85% of the Company's product sales were attributable to three customers; McKesson Corp. Cardinal Health, Inc. and Amerisource Bergen Corp. In the event of financial failure of any of these customers, the Company may suffer financial loss and a decline in revenues and earnings. In addition, the number of independent drug stores and small chains has decreased as retail pharmacy consolidation has occurred. Consolidation or financial difficulties could cause customers to reduce their inventory levels, or otherwise reduce purchases of the Company's products. Such actions could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s Specialty Pharmaceutical product sales are made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors as well as to large pharmacies in both the United States and Europe. Consequently, product sales and growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions, or other factors. In addition, a significant portion of the Company's revenues for certain products for treatment of rare genetic diseases are concentrated with a small number of customers. Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE BIOPHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY The actions of governments, industry regulators and the economic environments in which the Company operates may adversely affect its ability to develop and market its products profitably Changes to laws or regulations impacting the pharmaceutical industry, in any country in which the Company conducts its business, may adversely impact the Company's sales, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, changes to the regulations relating to orphan drug status may affect the exclusivity granted to products with such designation. Changes in the general economic conditions in any of the Company's major markets may also affect the Company's sales, financial condition and results of operations. The introduction of new products by competitors may impact future revenues The manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals is highly competitive. Many of the Company's competitors are large, well-known pharmaceutical, biotechnology, chemical and healthcare companies with considerable resources. Companies with more resources and larger R&D expenditures have a greater ability to fund clinical trials and other development work necessary for regulatory applications. They may also be more successful than the Company in acquiring or licensing new products for development and commercialisation. If any product that competes with one of the Company's principal drugs is approved, the Company's sales of that drug could fall. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are also characterised by continuous product development and technological change. The Company's products could, therefore, be rendered obsolete or uneconomic, through the development of new products, technological advances in manufacturing or production by its competitors. If the Company's projects or clinical trials for the development of products are unsuccessful, its products will not receive authorization for manufacture and sale Due to the complexity of the formulation and development of pharmaceuticals, the Company cannot be certain that it or its collaborative partners will successfully complete the development of new products, or, if successful, that such products will be commercially viable. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of each product under development, the Company or its collaborative partners must demonstrate through clinical and other studies that the product is of appropriate quality and is safe and effective for the claimed use. Clinical trials of any product under development may not demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy required to result in an approvable or a marketable product. Failure to demonstrate adequately the quality, safety and efficacy of a therapeutic drug under development would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product. In addition, regulatory authorities in Europe, the United States, Canada and other countries may require additional studies, which could result in (a) increased costs and significant development delays, or (b) termination of a project if it would no longer be economically viable. The completion rate of clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, obtaining adequate clinical supplies and recruiting patients. Delays in patient enrolment in clinical trials may also result in increased costs and program delays. Additional delays can occur in instances in which the Company shares control over the planning and execution of product development with collaborative partners. The Company cannot be certain that, if clinical trials are completed, either the Company or its collaborative partners will file for, or receive, required authorisations to manufacture and/or market potential products (including a marketing authorization application or NDA) or that such application will be reviewed and approved by the regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if at all. 31 If the Company is unable to meet the requirements of regulators in relation to a particular product, it may be unable to develop the product or obtain or retain the necessary marketing approvals Drug companies are required to obtain regulatory approval before manufacturing and marketing most drug products. Regulatory approval is generally based on the results of: · quality testing (chemistry, manufacturing and controls); · non-clinical testing; and · clinical testing. The clinical development, manufacture, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive regulation, including separate regulation by each member state of the EU, the EMEA itself and federal, state and local regulation in the United States. Unanticipated legislative and other regulatory actions and developments concerning various aspects of the Company's operations and products may restrict its ability to sell one or more of its products or to sell those products at a profit. The generation of data is regulated and any generated data is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Required regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, other regulatory requirements for any such proposed products may not be met. Even if the Company obtains regulatory approvals, the terms of any product approval, including labelling, may be more restrictive than desired and could affect the marketability of its products. Regulatory authorities also have the power amongst other things, to: · revoke or suspend approvals of previously approved products; · require the recall of products that fail to meet regulatory requirements; and · close manufacturing plants that do not operate in conformity with cGMP and/or other regulatory requirements or approvals. Such delays or actions could affect the Company's ability to manufacture and sell its products. The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize products could result in delays in approval or loss of revenue The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other companies in areas such as product development and sales and marketing. In these partnerships, the Company is dependent on its partner to deliver results. While these partnerships are supported by contracts, the Company does not exercise direct control. If a partner fails to perform or experiences financial difficulties, the Company may suffer a delay in the development, a delay in the approval or a reduction in sales or royalties of a product. The failure to secure new products or compounds for development, either through in-licensing, acquisition or internal research and development efforts, may have an adverse impact on the Company's future results The Company's future results will depend, to a significant extent, upon its ability to in-license, acquire or develop new products or compounds. The Company also expends significant resources on research and development. The failure to in-license or acquire new products or compounds, on a commercially viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position. The failure of these efforts to result in the development of products appropriate for testing in human clinical trials could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business The Company's success depends upon its ability and the ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights. Where possible, the Company's strategy is to register intellectual property rights, such as patents and trademarks. The Company also relies variously on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain its competitive position. Patents and patent applications covering a number of the technologies and processes owned or licensed to the Company have been granted, or are pending in various countries, including the United States, Canada, major European countries and Japan. The Company intends to enforce vigorously its patent rights and believes that its partners intend to enforce vigorously patent rights they have licensed to the Company. However, patent rights may not prevent other entities from developing, using or commercialising products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products or technologies or processes for formulating or manufacturing similar or functionally equivalent products. The Company's patent rights may be successfully challenged in the future or laws providing such rights may be changed or withdrawn. The Company cannot assure investors that its patents and patent applications or those of its third party manufacturers will provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to protect the Company's products and technology or that such patents will not be challenged, revoked, invalidated, 32 infringed or circumvented by third parties. In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. (See ITEM 3 of this Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation). Additionally, the Company's products, or the technologies or processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties. It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the Company's products. If third parties are the first to invent a particular product or technology, it is possible that those parties will obtain patent rights that will be sufficiently broad to prevent the Company or its strategic partners from developing, manufacturing or selling its products. The Company may need to obtain licences for intellectual property rights from others to develop, manufacture and market commercially viable products and may not be able to obtain these licences on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any licensed patents or proprietary rights may not be valid and enforceable. The Company also relies on trade secrets and other un-patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorised disclosure of such information. If the Company's employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that may be applicable to the Company's products under development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company's property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of the Company's proprietary rights. The failure to obtain or maintain patent and trade secret protection, for any reason, could allow other companies to make competing products and reduce the Company's product sales. The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks for use in connection with its products in various countries including the United States and countries in Europe and Latin America and intends to trademark new product names as new products are developed. In addition, with respect to certain products, the Company relies on the trademarks of third parties. These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not have the financial resources to enforce any rights under any of these trademarks. The Company's inability or the inability of these third parties to protect their trademarks because of successful third party claims to those trademarks could allow others to use the Company's trademarks and dilute their value. If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the Company's reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal action against the Company Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of the Company's products, or those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products entails a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse publicity. The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited. A successful product liability claim against the Company could require the Company to pay a substantial monetary award. If, in the absence of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defence of such a claim, it could become insolvent. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Although the Company carries product liability insurance, this coverage may not be adequate. In addition, it cannot be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will be available. Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured or eventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Company's products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialisation of other products. Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities or law enforcement agencies relating to the Company’s activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in the distraction of senior management, significant legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation or fines The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well the sale of, pharmaceutical products in a number of jurisdictions around the world. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as the Company, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the FDA, the US Department of Justice and the DEA in the US. Any inquiries or investigations into the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the Company by such regulatory authorities could result in the distraction of senior management for prolonged periods of time, significant defence costs and substantial monetary penalties. 33 The outsourcing of services can create a significant dependency on third parties, the failure of whom can affect the ability to operate the Company's business and to develop and market products The Company has entered into many agreements with third parties for the provision of services to enable it to operate its business. If the third party can no longer provide the service on the agreed basis, the Company may not be able to continue the development or commercialisation of its products as planned or on a commercial basis. Additionally, it may not be able to establish or maintain good relationships with the suppliers. The Company has also entered into licensing and co-development agreements with a number of parties. There is a risk that, upon expiration or termination of a third party agreement, the Company may not be able to renew or extend the agreement with the third party as commercial interests may no longer coincide. In such circumstances, the Company may be unable to continue to develop or market its products as planned and could be required to abandon or divest a product line. Loss of highly qualified management and scientific personnel could cause the Company subsequent financial loss The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified management and scientific personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organisations. It may not be able to successfully attract and retain such personnel. The Company has agreements with a number of its key scientific and management personnel for periods of one year or less. The loss of such personnel, or the inability to attract and retain the additional, highly skilled employees required for its activities could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. In the event of breakdown, failure or breach of security on any of the Company's IT systems, the Company may be unable to maintain its business operations The Company operates several complex information systems upon which it is dependent. The Company has back-up procedures and disaster recovery plans in place to enable the business to continue its normal operations and to mitigate any loss in the event of a failure. However, in the event of breakdown, failure or breach of security of any of these systems or the associated suppliers, the Company may be unable to maintain its business operations. This could lead to loss of revenue and delay in product development. In addition, the Company is in the process of installing enterprise-wide information systems in its operations throughout the world. Any failure in the operation of these systems could have an adverse effect on the Company's business operations. The Company may incur unexpected expenditure in order to comply with US environmental laws The Company's manufacturing sites are situated in the United States and are subject to national, state and local environmental laws. Compliance with environmental laws requires ongoing expenditure and any spillage or contamination found to be caused by the Company may result in clean up costs and financial penalties for the Company which could adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Contracts are used in all areas of operation of the business. They may contain provisions that do not protect the Company's position or with which it cannot comply Contracts form the basis of agreement in many key activities such as mergers and acquisitions, arrangements with suppliers, outsourcing, product licensing and marketing. These contracts may contain provisions that impose duties on the parties involved or may fail to contain adequate conditions to protect the Company's position. The Company may be unable to meet its obligations under a contract or may be unable to require other parties to comply with their obligations and, therefore, may suffer financial loss or penalty. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 ITEM 