ITEM 1A: Risk Factors The Company has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces. While the Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss. Set out below are the key risk factors, associated with the business, that have been identified through the Company's approach to risk management. Some of these risk factors are specific to the Company, and others are more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry in which the Company operates. The Company considers that these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully considered before any investment is made in Shire. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The Company’s key products may not be a commercial success The commercial success of the Company’s key products - ELAPRASE, VYVANSE, LIALDA/MEZAVANT, PENTASA, FOSRENOL, REPLAGAL, INTUNIV, VPRIV, FIRAZYR and RESOLOR as well as other new products that the Company may launch in the future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key decision-makers, as well as the timing of the receipt of additional marketing approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product’s label, the countries in which such approvals are obtained, the authorization of price and reimbursement in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products. The Company may not be able to grow its product revenues as quickly as anticipated if any or all of the following occur: · if competitive products are genericized or if the prices of competitor products are otherwise reduced significantly, and the prescribing of treatments for the indications that the Company’s products treat is adversely affected; · if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the Company’s products not seen in clinical trials that impact the physician’s willingness to prescribe the Company’s products; · if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post marketing purposes or for registration in another country or if regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that raises concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in another country; · if patients, payors or physicians favor other treatments over the Company’s products; · if government regulation is stricter for the Company’s products than for other treatments; · loss of patent protection or ability of competitors to challenge or circumvent patents (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation); · if planned geographical expansion into emerging markets is not successful; · if the size of the patient populations for the Company’s products are less than expected or the Company fails to identify new patients for its products; or · product liability claims. If the Company is unable to commercialize any of its key products successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company derives significant revenues and earnings from mature portfolio products (whether or not promoted) including CARBATROL, CALCICHEW, REMINYL and XAGRID. Sales of these products could decrease as a result of any or all of the following: · if competitive products are genericized or if the prices of competitor products are otherwise reduced significantly, and the prescribing of treatments for the indications that the Company’s products treat is adversely affected; · if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the Company’s products not seen in clinical trials that impact the physician’s willingness to prescribe the Company’s products; · if patients, payers or physicians favor other treatments over the Company’s products; or · if the Company’s products suffer a loss of patent protection or competitors successfully challenge or circumvent the Company’s patents or regulatory exclusivity (See ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and 30 Table of Contents Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation). Unanticipated decreases in revenues from ADDERALL XR could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and earnings In the year to December 31, 2010 sales of ADDERALL XR declined 42% to $360.8 million, representing approximately 10% of the Company’s total revenues, (sales of ADDERALL XR in the years to December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $626.5 million and $1,101.7 million respectively). This decline resulted directly from the launch by Teva and Impax of authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR in April and October 2009, respectively. The Company sells the authorized generic version of ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax and currently receives royalties from Impax on the sale of its authorized generic. Shire continues to sell the branded version of ADDERALL XR. Factors that could negatively impact total revenue from ADDERALL XR include, but are not limited to: · faster than anticipated erosion of ADDERALL XR sales and elimination of the Impax royalty as a result of FDA approval of additional generic competitors; · issues impacting the production of ADDERALL XR or the supply of amphetamine salts including, but not limited to, the ability to get sufficient quota from the US DEA; · changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; and · changes to the level of sales deductions for ADDERALL XR for private or public payers. In addition, in respect of the period prior to October 1, 2010, when certain provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act became effective and provided further clarity, there were potentially different interpretations as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation. The CMS may disagree with the Company's interpretation as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation, and require the Company to apply an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and pay an additional amount in excess of the liability recorded by the Company. For further details, see ITEM 7: Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Any decrease in royalties derived from the sales of 3TC and ZEFFIX could significantly reduce earnings The Company receives royalties from GSK on the worldwide sales of 3TC and ZEFFIX. In 2010, the Company's royalty income relating to 3TC and ZEFFIX sales was $154.0 million (2009: $164.0 million; 2008: $180.5 million). Any factors that decrease sales of 3TC and ZEFFIX by GSK could significantly reduce the Company's royalty revenue, and negatively affect results of operations. These include, but are not limited to: · loss of patent protection or ability of competitors to challenge or circumvent patents (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation); · reduction in the production of 3TC and ZEFFIX; · technological advances; · government action/intervention; · public opinion towards AIDS treatments; and · product liability claims. The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payers in a timely manner for the Company's products may impact future revenues and earnings The Company's revenues are partly dependent on the level of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental reimbursement schemes for pharmaceutical products. Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the reimbursement of treatment established by health care providers, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations are under downward pressure and this, in turn, could impact on the prices at which the Company can sell its products. The market for pharmaceutical products could be significantly influenced by the following, which could result in lower prices for the Company's products and/or a reduced demand for the Company's products: · the ongoing trend toward managed health care, particularly in the US; 31 Table of Contents · legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Company's markets; and · price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic and therapeutic rationales are not established. The prices for certain of the Company's products when commercialized, in particular products for the treatment of rare genetic diseases such as REPLAGAL, ELAPRASE and VPRIV, may be high compared to other pharmaceutical products. The Company may encounter particular difficulty in obtaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for its products, particularly those with a high cost of treatment. The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for such products may adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption to the product supply chain may result in the Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product or may result in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis The Company sources its products from third party contract manufacturers, and for certain products has its own manufacturing capability. In the event of either the Company's failure or the failure of any third party contract manufacturer to comply with mandatory manufacturing standards (often referred to as ‘Current Good Manufacturing Standards’ or cGMP) in the countries in which the Company sells or intends to sell or have its products sold or suffering another form of disruption to the supply chain, the Company may experience a delay in supply or be unable to market or develop its products. The Company dual-sources certain key products and/or active ingredients. However, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for each of ADDERALL XR, FOSRENOL, FIRAZYR, INTUNIV, CARBATROL, PENTASA, VPRIV, RESOLOR and XAGRID and relies on a single active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, REMINYL, REPLAGAL, VPRIV, RESOLOR and XAGRID. In the event of financial failure of a third party contract manufacturer or the failure of the third party manufacturer to comply with its contractual obligations, the Company may experience a delay in supply or be unable to market or develop its products. This could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that suppliers will continue to supply on commercially viable terms, or be able to supply components that meet regulatory requirements. The Company is also subject to the risk that suppliers will not be able to meet the quantities needed to meet market requirements which may result in the shortage of product supplies in the market The development and approval of the Company's products depends on the ability to procure active ingredients and special packaging materials from sources approved by regulatory authorities. As the marketing approval process requires manufacturers to specify their own proposed suppliers of active ingredients and special packaging materials in their applications, regulatory approval of a new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the supplier specified in the marketing approval. The need to qualify a new supplier could delay the Company's development and commercialization efforts. The Company uses bovine-derived serum sourced from New Zealand and North America in the manufacturing process for ELAPRASE. The discovery of additional cattle in North America or the discovery of cattle in New Zealand with bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, could cause the regulatory agencies in some countries to impose restrictions on these products, or prohibit the Company from using these products at all in such countries. The actions of certain customers can affect the Company's ability to sell or market products profitably, as well as impact net sales and growth comparisons A small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the US and certain European markets. In 2010, for example, 44% of the Company's product sales were attributable to two customers in the US; McKesson Corp. and Cardinal Health, Inc. In the event of financial failure of any of these customers, the Company may suffer financial loss and a decline in revenues and earnings. In addition, the number of independent drug stores and small chains has decreased as retail pharmacy consolidation has occurred. Consolidation or financial difficulties could cause customers to reduce their inventory levels, or otherwise reduce purchases of the Company's products. Such actions could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s SP product sales are made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors as well as to large pharmacies in both the US and Europe. Consequently, product sales and growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions, or other factors. 32 Table of Contents In addition, a significant portion of the Company's revenues for certain products for treatment of rare genetic diseases are concentrated with a small number of customers. Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities or law enforcement agencies relating to the Company’s activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in the distraction of senior management, significant legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation or fines The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, pharmaceutical products in a number of jurisdictions around the world. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as the Company, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the US Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the FDA, the US Department of Justice and the DEA in the US. Any inquiries or investigations into the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the Company by such regulatory authorities could result in the distraction of senior management for prolonged periods of time, significant defence costs, substantial monetary penalties and require extensive government monitoring of Company activities in the future. As an example, on September 23, 2009 the Company received a subpoena from the HHS Office of Inspector General in coordination with the US Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, seeking production of documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, VYVANSE and DAYTRANA. Shire is cooperating and responding to this subpoena. The outsourcing of services can create a significant dependency on third parties, the failure of whom can affect the ability to operate the Company's business and to develop and market products The Company has entered into many agreements with third parties for the provision of services to enable it to operate its business. If the third party can no longer provide the service on the agreed basis, the Company may not be able to continue the development or commercialization of its products as planned or on a commercial basis. Additionally, it may not be able to establish or maintain good relationships with the suppliers. The Company has also entered into licensing and co-development agreements with a number of parties. There is a risk that, upon expiration or termination of a third party agreement, the Company may not be able to renew or extend the agreement with the third party as commercial interests may no longer coincide. In such circumstances, the Company may be unable to continue to develop or market its products as planned and could be required to abandon or divest a product line. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY IN GENERAL The actions of governments, industry regulators and the economic environments in which the Company operates may adversely affect its ability to develop and market its products profitably Changes to laws or regulations impacting the pharmaceutical industry, in any country in which the Company conducts its business, may adversely impact the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, changes to the regulations relating to orphan drug status may affect the exclusivity granted to products with such designation. The introduction of new products by competitors may impact future revenues The manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals is highly competitive. Many of the Company's competitors are large, well-known pharmaceutical, biotechnology, chemical and healthcare companies with considerable resources. Companies with more resources and larger R&D expenditures have a greater ability to fund clinical trials and other development work necessary for regulatory applications. They may also be more successful than the Company in acquiring or licensing new products for development and commercialization. If any product that competes with one of the Company's principal drugs is approved, the Company's sales of that drug could fall. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are also characterized by continuous product development and technological change. The Company's products could, therefore, be rendered obsolete or uneconomical, through the development of new products, technological advances in manufacturing or production by its competitors. 33 Table of Contents The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time Products that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: · preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety or efficacy; · delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; additional clinical supplies requirements; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or dossier preparation; discussions with regulatory agencies, including regulatory agency requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; delays at regulatory agencies due to staffing or resource limitations; analysis of or changes to study design; unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues. Delays may arise from shared control with collaborative partners in the planning and execution of the product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing; · manufacturing issues, pricing, reimbursement issues, or other factors may render the product economically unviable; · the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; and · failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. If the Company’s large-scale or late state clinical trials for a product are not successful, the Company will not recover its substantial investments in that product. In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other non-clinical testing, changes to the product label, new or revised requirements for manufacturing, written notifications to physicians, or product recalls or withdrawals. Further, a number of the Company’s products that treat ADHD contain controlled substances and are subject to regulation by the US DEA and equivalent agencies in other countries. The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize products could result in delays in approval or loss of revenue The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other companies in areas such as product development and sales and marketing. In these partnerships, the Company is sometimes dependent on its partner to deliver results. While these partnerships are supported by contracts, the Company may not exercise direct control. If a partner fails to perform or experiences financial difficulties, the Company may suffer a delay in the development, a delay in the approval or a reduction in sales or royalties of a product. The failure to secure new products or compounds for development, either through in-licensing, acquisition or internal research and development efforts, may have an adverse impact on the Company's future results The Company's future results will depend, to a significant extent, upon its ability to in-license, acquire or develop new products or compounds. The Company also expends significant resources on research and development. The failure to in-license or acquire new products or compounds, on a commercially viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of these efforts to result in the development of products appropriate for testing in human clinical trials could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business The Company's success depends upon its ability and the ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights. Where possible, the Company's strategy is to register intellectual property rights, such as patents and trademarks. The Company also relies variously on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain its competitive position. Patents and patent applications covering a number of the technologies and processes owned or licensed to the Company have been granted, or are pending in various countries, including the US, Canada, major European countries and Japan. 34 Table of Contents The Company intends to enforce vigorously its patent rights and believes that its partners intend to enforce vigorously patent rights they have licensed to the Company. However, patent rights may not prevent other entities from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products or technologies. The Company's patent rights may be successfully challenged in the future or laws providing such rights may be changed or withdrawn. The Company cannot assure investors that its patents and patent applications or those of its third party manufacturers will provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to protect the Company's products and technology or that such patents will not be challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third parties. In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation). Additionally, the Company's products, or the technologies or processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties. It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the Company's products. If third parties are the first to invent a particular product or technology, it is possible that those parties will obtain patent rights that will be sufficiently broad to prevent the Company or its strategic partners from developing, manufacturing or selling its products. The Company may need to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights from others to develop, manufacture and market commercially viable products and may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any licensed patents or proprietary rights may not be valid and enforceable. The Company also relies on trade secrets and other un-patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If the Company's employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that may be applicable to the Company's products under development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company's property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of the Company's proprietary rights. The failure to obtain or maintain patent and trade secret protection, for any reason, could allow other companies to make competing products and reduce the Company's product sales. The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks for use in connection with its products in various countries including the US and countries in Europe and Latin America and intends to trademark new product names as new products are developed. In addition, with respect to certain products, the Company relies on the trademarks of third parties. These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not have the financial resources to enforce any rights under any of these trademarks. The Company's inability or the inability of these third parties to protect their trademarks because of successful third party claims to those trademarks could allow others to use the Company's trademarks and dilute their value. If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the Company's reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal action against the Company Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints concerning any of the Company's products, or those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products entails a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse publicity. The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited. A successful product liability claim against the Company could require the Company to pay a substantial monetary award. If, in the absence of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could become insolvent. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Although the Company carries product liability insurance when available, this coverage may not be adequate. In addition, it cannot be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will be available. Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured or eventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Company's products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products. Loss of highly qualified management and scientific personnel could cause the Company subsequent financial loss The Company faces competition for highly qualified management and scientific personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. It may not be able to successfully attract and retain such personnel. The Company has agreements with a number of its key scientific and management personnel for periods of one year or less. The loss of such personnel, or the inability to attract and retain the additional, highly skilled employees required for its activities could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36 Table of Contents 