ITEM 1A: Risk Factors The Company has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces. While the Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss. Set out below are the key risk factors associated with the business that have been identified through the Company's approach to risk management. Some of these risk factors are specific to the Company, and others are more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry or specific markets in which the Company operates. The Company believes that these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully considered before any investment is made in Shire. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The Company’s products may not be a commercial success The commercial success of the Company’s marketed products and other new products that the Company may launch in the future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key decision-makers, as well as the timing of the receipt of additional marketing approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product’s label, the countries in which such approvals are obtained, the authorization of price and reimbursement in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products. The Company may not be able to grow its product revenues as quickly as anticipated if any or all of the following occur: · if Shire’s products or competitive products are genericized or if the prices of competitor products are otherwise reduced significantly; · if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the Company’s products or those of a competitor’s product in the same therapeutic area not seen in clinical trials that impact the physician’s willingness to prescribe the Company’s products; · if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post marketing purposes or for registration in another country or if regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that raises concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in another country; · if patients, payors or physicians favor other treatments over the Company’s products; · if government regulation is stricter for the Company’s products than for other treatments; · loss of patent protection or ability of competitors to challenge or circumvent patents (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation); · if planned geographical expansion into emerging markets is not successful; · if the sizes of the patient populations for the Company’s products are less than expected or the Company fails to identify new patients for its products; or · if there are lawsuits filed against Shire, including but not limited to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, and payor or reimbursement litigation. If the Company is unable to commercialize any of its products successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated decreases in revenues from ADDERALL XR could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and earnings Following the launch of authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR in 2009, Shire’s sales of ADDERALL XR decreased by 42% in 2010 compared to 2009. In the year to December 31, 2011 product sales of ADDERALL XR increased 48% to $532.8 million, representing approximately 12% of the Company’s total revenues, (sales of ADDERALL XR in the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $360.8 million and $626.5 million respectively). The Company sells authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax and currently receives royalties from Impax in respect of sales of its authorized generic. Shire continues to sell the branded version of ADDERALL XR. Factors that could negatively impact total revenue from ADDERALL XR include, but are not limited to: · erosion of ADDERALL XR product sales if the authorized generic versions capture Shire’s branded market share; 31 Table of Contents · any approval by the FDA of any ANDAs for ADDERALL XR which could further reduce branded market share. Any such approval may eliminate or reduce royalties currently received from Impax; · issues impacting the production of ADDERALL XR or the supply of amphetamine salts including, but not limited to, the ability to get sufficient quota from the US DEA; · changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; and · changes to the level of sales deductions for ADDERALL XR for private or public payers. In addition, in respect of the period prior to October 1, 2010, when certain provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act became effective and provided further clarity, there were potentially different interpretations as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation. The CMS may disagree with the Company's interpretation as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation, and require the Company to apply an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, resulting in additional liability to be recorded by the Company. For further details, see ITEM 7: Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payers in a timely manner for the Company's products may impact future revenues and earnings The Company's revenues are partly dependent on the level of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental reimbursement schemes for its products. Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the reimbursement of treatments by health care providers, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations is under downward pressure and this, in turn, could impact on the prices at which the Company can sell its products. The market for the Company’s products could be significantly influenced by the following, which could result in lower prices for the Company's products and/or a reduced demand for the Company's products: · higher levels of controls on the use of the Company’s products and/or requirements for additional price concessions by managed health care organizations; · legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Company's markets; and · price controls and non-reimbursement of new and highly priced medicines for which the economic and therapeutic rationales are not established. The prices for certain of the Company's products, in particular products for the treatment of rare genetic diseases such as REPLAGAL, ELAPRASE and VPRIV, may be high compared to other pharmaceutical products. The Company may encounter difficulty in obtaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products. The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for such products may adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption to a product’s supply chain may result in the Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product or may result in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis The Company sources some products from third party contract manufacturers, and for certain products has its own manufacturing capability. Although the Company dual-sources certain key products and/or active ingredients, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for each of ADDERALL XR, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, PENTASA, RESOLOR and VPRIV, relies on a single active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, REPLAGAL, RESOLOR and VPRIV and relies on a single source for certain serum reagents, the mesh framework and the manifold used in the manufacture of DERMAGRAFT. In the event of: · financial failure of a third party contract manufacturer; or · the failure of a third party manufacturer to comply with its contractual obligations; or · the failure of the Company or a third party contract manufacturer to comply with mandatory manufacturing standards ( “Current Good Manufacturing Standards” or “cGMP”); or 32 Table of Contents · the failure of the Company or a third party contract manufacturer to manufacture sufficient quantities of product to meet demand; or · any other form of disruption to the supply chain. the Company may experience a delay in supply or be unable to supply, market or develop its products. Any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that suppliers will continue to supply on commercially viable terms, or be able to supply components that meet regulatory requirements. The Company is also subject to the risk that suppliers will not be able to meet the quantities needed to meet market requirements which may result in the shortage of product supplies in the market The development and approval of the Company's products depends on the ability to procure active ingredients and special packaging materials from sources approved by regulatory authorities. As the marketing approval process requires manufacturers to specify their own proposed suppliers of active ingredients and special packaging materials in their applications, regulatory approval of a new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the supplier specified in the marketing approval. The need to qualify a new supplier could delay the Company's development and commercialization efforts. The Company uses bovine-derived serum sourced from New Zealand and North America in the manufacturing process for ELAPRASE and DERMAGRAFT. The discovery of additional cattle in North America or the discovery of cattle in New Zealand with bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, could cause the regulatory agencies in some countries to impose restrictions on these products, or prohibit the Company from using them. This could disrupt the Company’s ability to supply these products and would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial conditions or results of operations. The actions of certain customers can affect the Company's ability to sell or market products profitably, as well as impact net sales and growth comparisons A small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the US and certain European markets. In 2011, for example, 49% of the Company's product sales were attributable to three customers in the US; McKesson Corp., Cardinal Health, Inc and AmerisourceBergen Corp. In the event of financial failure of either of these customers, the Company may suffer financial loss and a decline in revenues and earnings. In addition, the number of independent drug stores and small chains has decreased as retail pharmacy consolidation has occurred. Consolidation or financial difficulties could cause customers to reduce their inventory levels, or otherwise reduce purchases of the Company's products. Such actions could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s SP product sales are made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors as well as to large pharmacies in both the US and Europe. Consequently, product sales and growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions, or other factors. In addition, a significant portion of the Company's revenues for certain products for treatment of rare genetic diseases are concentrated with a small number of customers. Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities or law enforcement agencies relating to the Company’s activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in the distraction of senior management, significant legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation or fines The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, pharmaceutical products in a number of jurisdictions around the world. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as the Company, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the US Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the FDA, the US Department of Justice, the SEC and the DEA. These authorities and agencies have broad authority to investigate market participants for violations of federal laws relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper conduct, including corrupt payments to government officials, improper payments to medical professionals, off-label marketing of pharmaceutical products, and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government. Pharmaceutical companies may be subject to enforcement actions or prosecution for such conduct, as well. Any inquiries or investigations into the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the Company by such authorities could result in the distraction of senior management for prolonged periods of time, significant defence costs, substantial monetary penalties and require extensive government monitoring of Company activities in the future. As an example, on September 23, 2009 the Company received a subpoena from the HHS Office of Inspector General in coordination with the US Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, seeking production of documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, VYVANSE and DAYTRANA. Shire is cooperating and responding to this subpoena (For further 33 Table of Contents information see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Adverse outcomes in legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. During the ordinary course of its business the Company may be involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, employees, regulatory agencies, Governmental authorities and other parties. The range of matters of a legal nature that might arise is extremely broad but could include, without limitation, employment claims and disputes, intellectual property claims and disputes, contract claims and disputes, product liability claims and disputes, regulatory litigation and tax audits. Any unfavourable outcome in such matters could adversely impact the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize its products, distract senior management to the detriment of the business, adversely affect the profitability of existing products, possibly subject the Company to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, and possibly result in the imposition of regulatory controls or exclusion of certain products or the Company from government reimbursement programs. Any such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. (For further information see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Contractual relationships can create a significant dependency on third parties, the failure of whom can affect the ability to operate the Company's business and to develop and market products The Company has entered into many agreements with third parties for the provision of goods and services to enable it to operate its business. If the third party does not provide the goods or services on the agreed basis, the Company may not be able to continue the development or commercialization of its products as planned or on a commercial basis. Additionally, it may not be able to establish or maintain good relationships with the suppliers. The Company has entered into licensing, co-development and other agreements with third parties. These contractual agreements may be altered, terminated or expire and the Company may not be able to renew, extend or contract on similar commercial terms, with the party or another third party. In such circumstances, the Company may be unable to continue to develop or market its products as planned and could be required to abandon or divest a product line. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIES IN GENERAL The actions of governments, industry regulators and the economic environments in which the Company operates may adversely affect its ability to develop and profitably market its products Changes to laws or regulations impacting the pharmaceutical industry, in any country in which the Company conducts its business, may adversely impact the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. For example, changes to the regulations relating to orphan drug status may affect the exclusivity granted to products with such designation. A slowdown of global economic growth, or continued instability of the Eurozone, could have negative consequences for our business and increase the risk of non-payment by the Company’s customers Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become increasingly tied to global economic growth. Accordingly a substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy or major national economies could negatively affect growth in the markets in which the Company operates. Such a slowdown, or any resultant austerity measures adopted by governments in response to a slowdown, could also reduce the level of reimbursement that governments are willing and able to provide to the Company for its products and, as a result, adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Any slowing economic environment may also lead to financial difficulties for some of the Company’s significant customers. In such situations, the Company could experience delays in payment or non-payment of amounts owed which may result in a rising level of contractual defaults by its contractual counterparties. The Company does business, both directly (with government hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and other agencies) and indirectly (through wholesalers and distributors), with a number of Eurozone governments (including the governments of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain) that have experienced or may continue to experience declines in their creditworthiness which may result in the continuation of significant cuts to public spending in an attempt to manage their budget deficits. In addition, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing individual Eurozone countries. Continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of Eurozone 34 Table of Contents countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU, or the failure of the Euro as a common European currency could adversely effect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The introduction of new products by competitors may impact future revenues The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive. Many of the Company's competitors are large, well-known pharmaceutical, biotechnology, chemical and healthcare companies with considerable resources. Companies with more resources and larger R&D expenditures have a greater ability to fund clinical trials and other development work necessary for regulatory applications. They may also be more successful than the Company in acquiring or licensing new products for development and commercialization. If any product that competes with one of the Company's principal drugs is approved, the Company's sales of that drug could be negatively impacted. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and regenerative medicine industries are also characterized by continuous product development and technological change. The Company's products could, therefore, be rendered obsolete or uneconomic, through the development of new products, technological advances in manufacturing or production by its competitors. The successful development of products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time Products that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: · preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety or efficacy; · delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; regulatory requirements for clinical trial drug supplies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or dossier preparation; time required for discussions with regulatory agencies, including regulatory agency requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; delays at regulatory agencies due to staffing or resource limitations; analysis of or changes to study design; unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues; delays may arise from shared control with collaborative partners in the planning and execution of the product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing; · manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may render the product economically unviable; · the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; and · failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. If the Company’s large-scale or late-stage clinical trials for a product are not successful, the Company will not recover its substantial investments in that product. In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other non-clinical testing, changes to the product label (which could impact its marketability and prospects for commercial success), new or revised requirements for manufacturing, written notifications to physicians, or product recalls or withdrawals. Further, a number of the Company’s ADHD products contain controlled substances and are subject to regulation by the US DEA and equivalent agencies in other countries. The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize products could result in delays in approval or loss of revenue The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other companies in areas such as product development and sales and marketing. In these partnerships, the Company is sometimes dependent on its partner to deliver results. While these partnerships are governed by contracts, the Company may not exercise direct control. If a partner fails to perform or experiences financial difficulties, the Company may suffer a delay in the development, a delay in the approval or a reduction in sales or royalties of a product. 35 Table of Contents The failure to secure new products or compounds for development, either through in-licensing, acquisition or internal research and development efforts, may have an adverse impact on the Company's future results The Company's future results will depend, to a significant extent, upon its ability to in-license, acquire or develop new products or compounds. The Company also expends significant resources on research and development. The failure to in-license or acquire new products or compounds, on a commercially viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of these efforts to develop products appropriate for testing in human clinical trials could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business The Company's success depends upon its ability and the ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights. Where possible, the Company's strategy is to register intellectual property rights, such as patents and trademarks. The Company also relies variously on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain its competitive position. Patents and patent applications covering a number of the technologies and processes owned or licensed to the Company have been granted, or are pending in various countries, including the US, Canada, major European countries and Japan. The Company intends to enforce vigorously its patent rights and believes that its partners intend to enforce vigorously patent rights they have licensed to the Company. However, patent rights may not prevent other entities from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products or technologies. The Company's patent rights may be successfully challenged in the future or laws providing such rights may be changed or withdrawn. The Company cannot assure investors that its patents and patent applications or those of its commercial partners, licensors and third party manufacturers will provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to protect the Company's products and technology or that such patents will not be challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third parties. In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current patent litigation). Additionally, the Company's products, or the technologies or processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties. It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the Company's products. If third parties are the first to invent a particular product or technology, it is possible that those parties will obtain patent rights that will be sufficiently broad to prevent the Company or its strategic partners from developing, manufacturing or selling its products. The Company may need to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights from others to develop, manufacture and market commercially viable products and may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any licensed patents or proprietary rights may not be valid and enforceable. The Company also relies on trade secrets and other un-patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If the Company's employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that may be applicable to the Company's products under development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company's property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of the Company's proprietary rights. The failure to obtain or maintain patent and trade secret protection, for any reason, could allow other companies to make competing products which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks for use in connection with its products in various countries including the US and countries in Europe and Latin America and intends to trademark new product names as new products are developed. In addition, with respect to certain products, the Company relies on the trademarks of third parties. These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not have the financial resources to enforce any rights under any of these trademarks. The Company's inability or the inability of these third parties to protect their trademarks because of successful third party claims to those trademarks could allow others to use the Company's trademarks and dilute their value. 36 Table of Contents If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the Company's reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal action against the Company Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints concerning any of the Company's products, or those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products entails a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse publicity. The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited. A successful product liability claim against the Company could require the Company to pay a substantial monetary award. If, in the absence of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could become insolvent. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Although the Company carries product liability insurance when available, this coverage may not be adequate. In addition, it cannot be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will be available. Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured or eventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Company's products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products. Loss of highly qualified management and scientific personnel could cause the Company subsequent financial loss The Company faces competition for highly qualified management and scientific personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. It may not be able to successfully attract and retain such personnel. The Company has agreements with a number of its key scientific and management personnel for periods of one year or less. The loss of such personnel, or the inability to attract and retain the additional, highly skilled employees required for its activities could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 37 Table of Contents 