ITEM 1A: Risk Factors The Company has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces. While the Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against any losses. Set out below are the key risk factors associated with the business that have been identified through the Company's approach to risk management. Some of these risk factors are specific to the Company, and others are more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry or specific markets in which the Company operates. The Company believes that these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully considered before any investment is made in Shire. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The Company’s products may not be a commercial success The commercial success of the Company’s marketed products and other new products that the Company may launch in the future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key decision-makers, as well as the receipt of marketing approvals in different countries, the time taken to obtain such approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product labels, approval of reimbursement at commercially sustainable prices in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products. The Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if any or all of the following occur: · if the Company’s products, or competitive products, are genericized; · if the prices of the Company’s products suffer forced reductions or if prices of competitor products are reduced significantly; · if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the Company’s products or those of a competitor’s product not seen in clinical trials that impact physicians’ willingness to prescribe the Company’s products; · if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post-marketing purposes or for registration in another country which raise questions or concerns about a product; · if the regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that raises concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in another country; · if patients, payers or physicians favor other treatments over the Company’s products; · if the Company’s products are subject to more stringent government regulation than competitor products; · if patent protection or other forms of exclusivity are lost or curtailed, or if competitors are able to successfully challenge or circumvent the Company’s patents or other forms of exclusivity (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current litigation); · if launches of the Company’s products in new markets are not successful; · if the sizes of the patient populations for the Company’s products are less than expected; or · if there are lawsuits filed against Shire, including but not limited to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, and payer or reimbursement litigation. If the Company is unable to commercialize its products successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. 33 Product sales from ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV are subject to generic competition During 2012 the FDA clarified the regulatory pathway required for approval of generic versions of ADDERALL XR. Consequently in June 2012 and February 2013, Actavis and Teva, respectively, received approval to launch their own generic versions of ADDERALL XR. Shire currently sells authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR to Teva and also continues to sell the branded version of ADDERALL XR. Actavis makes and markets its own generic versions of ADDERALL XR. In 2013, Shire settled a number of patent lawsuits in the United States against certain companies that had filed for approval of their generic versions of INTUNIV. Under the terms of the settlements, Actavis was granted a license to make and market Actavis' generic versions of INTUNIV in the United States on December 1, 2014. All other parties with whom Shire has settled will be able to enter the market with their respective ANDA-approved products after Actavis’ 180 day exclusivity period has expired. Product sales from INTUNIV have declined as a result of the December 2014 launch of Actavis’ generic versions of INTUNIV and are expected to decline further following the anticipated launches of generic versions of INTUNIV by other companies after Actavis’ 180 day exclusivity period expires. Factors which could cause further or more rapid decline in ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV product sales include: · generic or authorized generic versions of these products capture more of Shire’s branded market share than expected; · the FDA approves additional ANDAs for generic versions of these products which, if launched, further reduce branded market share or impact the amount of Shire’s authorized generic product sales; · the production of branded ADDERALL XR is disrupted by difficulties in obtaining a sufficient supply of amphetamine salts including, but not limited to, an inability to obtain sufficient quota from the DEA; · there are changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; or · there are changes to the level of sales deductions for branded ADDERALL XR or branded INTUNIV for private or public payers. The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payers in a timely manner for the Company's products may affect future revenues, financial condition and results of operations The Company's revenues are partly dependent on the level of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental reimbursement schemes for its products. Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the reimbursement of treatments by health care providers, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations is under downward pressure and this, in turn, could adversely impact the prices at which the Company can sell its products. Factors affecting the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain adequate reimbursement for its products include: · higher levels of controls on the use of the Company’s products and/or requirements for additional price concessions mandated or negotiated by managed health care organizations or government authorities; · legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Company's markets; and · price controls, unsuccessful government tenders, or non-reimbursement of new medicines or new indications. The cost of treatment for some of the Company's products is high, particularly those which are used for the treatment of rare diseases. The Company may encounter difficulty in obtaining or maintaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products. The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for its products may adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. 34 The Company conducts its own manufacturing operations for certain of its products and is reliant on third party contract manufacturers to manufacture other products and to provide goods and services. Some of the Company’s products or ingredients are only available from a single approved source for manufacture. Any disruption to the supply chain for any of the Company’s products may result in the Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product or may result in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis for some period of time. Although the Company dual-sources certain key products and/or active ingredients, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for each of ADDERALL XR, CINRYZE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, LIALDA and PENTASA, the Company currently relies on a single active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV and REPLAGAL and also relies on limited third party sources to provide the donated human plasma necessary for the manufacture of CINRYZE. Following the completion of the acquisition of NPS Pharma in the first quarter of 2015, Shire has acquired GATTEX/REVESTIVE, which currently relies on a single active ingredient source and NATPARA/NATPAR, which currently relies on a single source for both production of the final drug product and supply of the active ingredient. The Company may experience supply failures or delays beyond its control if it does not, or if any of its third party manufacturers do not, supply the Company on time with the required volumes, or supply products that do not meet regulatory requirements. Any such supply failures could lead to significant delays, increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, or the delay of new product launches, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company has also entered into many agreements with third parties for the provision of goods and services to enable it to manufacture its products. If these third parties are unable to manufacture products, or provide these goods and services, in each case in accordance with its respective contractual obligations, the Company’s ability to manage its manufacturing processes or to operate its business, including to continue the development or commercialization of its products as planned or on a commercial basis, may be adversely impacted. The manufacture of the Company’s products is subject to extensive oversight by various regulatory agencies. Regulatory approvals or interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities or the delay of new product launches Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sites must be inspected and approved by regulatory agencies such as the FDA, and similar agencies in other countries. Active ingredients, excipients and packaging materials used in the manufacturing process must be obtained from sources approved by regulatory agencies. The development, approval and manufacturing of the Company's products depend on the ability to procure ingredients and packaging materials from approved sources and for the manufacturing process to be conducted at approved sites. Changes of manufacturer or changes of source of ingredients or packaging materials must generally be approved by the regulatory agencies, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with the applicable regulatory agency’s regulations and standards. The need to qualify a new manufacturer or source of ingredients or packaging materials can take a significant amount of time. Should it become necessary to change a manufacturer or supplier of ingredients or packaging materials, or to qualify an additional supplier, the Company may not be able do so quickly, or at all, which could delay or disrupt the manufacturing process. US-based manufacturers must be registered with the DEA and similar regulatory authorities in other countries if they handle controlled substances. Certain of the Company’s products, including ADDERALL XR and VYVANSE, contain ingredients which are controlled substances subject to quotas managed by the DEA. As a result, the Company’s procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand. CINRYZE, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL and VPRIV are manufactured using highly complex biological processes. The complexity of the manufacturing results in a number of risks, including the risk of microbial contamination. Additionally, CINRYZE is derived from human plasma, and is therefore subject to the risk of biological contamination inherent in plasma-derived products. The sole manufacturer of CINRYZE has received observations on Form 483 and a warning letter from the FDA identifying issues with respect to the manufacturing process for CINRYZE which must be addressed to the satisfaction of the FDA. Any regulatory interventions, in relation to these, or any other issues, if they occur, may delay or disrupt the manufacture of the Company’s products. 35 The failure to obtain regulatory approvals promptly or at all and/or regulatory interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, the delay of new product launches or constraints on manufacturing output, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a portfolio of products in various stages of research and development. The successful development of these products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time, and there is no guarantee that these products will receive regulatory approval Products that initially appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development as: · preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety or efficacy; · delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; regulatory requirements for clinical trial drug supplies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or dossier preparation; time required for discussions with regulatory agencies, including regulatory agency requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; delays at regulatory agencies due to staffing or resource limitations; analysis of or changes to study design; unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues; delays may arise from shared control with collaborative partners in the planning and execution of the product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing; · manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may render the product economically unviable; · the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; or · submission of an application for regulatory approval of any of the Company’s product candidates may be subjected to lengthy review and ultimately rejected. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that late stage clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Moreover, once an application is submitted, additional data may be sought by regulators or an application may be rejected. If the Company’s large-scale or late-stage clinical trials for a product are not successful, the Company will not recover its substantial investments in that product. The Company has a range of programs in late stage clinical development. For example, in Phase 3, SHP606 is being developed for the treatment of DED and SHP465 is being developed for the treatment of ADHD in adults. In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other non-clinical testing, changes to the product label (which could impact its marketability and prospects for commercial success), new or revised requirements for manufacturing, written notifications to physicians, or product recalls or withdrawals. The actions of certain customers could affect the Company's ability to sell or market products profitably. Fluctuations in buying or distribution patterns by such customers can adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial conditions or results of operations A considerable portion of the Company’s product sales are made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as well as to large pharmacies, in both the US and Europe. In 2014, for example, 47% of the Company's product sales were attributable to three customers in the US: McKesson Corp., Cardinal Health, Inc and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corp. In the event of financial failure of any of these customers there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations may also be affected by fluctuations in customer buying or distribution patterns. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler inventory objectives, or other factors. A significant portion of the Company's revenues for certain products for treatment of rare diseases are concentrated within a small number of customers. Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. 36 Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities or law enforcement agencies relating to the Company’s activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in significant legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation or fines The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, pharmaceutical products and medical devices in a number of jurisdictions around the world. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as the Company, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the US Department of HHS, the FDA, the US Department of Justice, the SEC and the DEA. These authorities and agencies and their equivalents in countries outside the US have broad authority to investigate market participants for potential violations of laws relating to the sale, marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper conduct, including corrupt payments to government officials, improper payments to medical professionals, off-label marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government. Healthcare companies may also be subject to enforcement actions or prosecution for such improper conduct. Any inquiries or investigations into the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the Company by such authorities could result in significant defense costs, fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future. The Company is subject to certain ongoing investigations by governmental agencies. For further information, see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, including Shire’s ability to enforce and defend patents and other intellectual property rights required for its business, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations During the ordinary course of its business the Company may be involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, employees, regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and other parties. The range of matters of a legal nature that might arise is extremely broad but could include, without limitation, intellectual property claims and disputes, product liability claims and disputes, regulatory litigation, contract claims and disputes, employment claims and disputes, and tax or other governmental agency audits and disputes. Any unfavorable outcome in such matters could adversely impact the Company’s ability to develop or commercialize its products, adversely affect the profitability of existing products, subject the Company to significant defense costs, fines, penalties, audit findings and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future. Any such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, financial condition or results of operations. For further information see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel from other companies and organizations. The Company is undergoing a corporate reorganization and was the subject of an unsuccessful acquisition proposal and the consequent uncertainty could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and/or retain the highly skilled personnel needed for the Company to meet its strategic objectives The Company relies on recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees to meet its strategic objectives. The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel and the supply of people with the requisite skills may be limited, generally or geographically. The range of skills required and the geographies in which they are required by the Company may also change over time as Shire’s business evolves. The Company’s ongoing One Shire reorganization, which aims to simplify the Company’s organizational structure and streamline operations through two principal locations, Massachusetts and Switzerland, involves changes to, and geographic relocation of, certain skilled roles. The unsuccessful proposed acquisition of the Company by AbbVie in 2014 created uncertainty in the employee population which could lead to further loss of certain skilled employees. If the Company is unable to retain key personnel or attract new personnel with the requisite skills and experience, it could adversely affect the implementation of the Company’s strategic objectives and ultimately adversely impact the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. 37 Failure to achieve the Company’s strategic objectives with respect to the acquisition of NPS Pharma may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations On February 21, 2015, Shire completed the acquisition of NPS Pharma for a total cash consideration of approximately $5.2 billion. The acquisition entails various risks, which, if they materialize, may adversely impact Shire’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. These risks include but are not limited to: · failure to achieve the targeted growth and expected benefits of the acquisition if sales of NPS Pharma products, including GATTEX/REVESTIVE, are lower than anticipated; · failure to successfully commercialize NPS Pharma’s compound NATPARA/NATPAR in the US or to obtain regulatory approval in the EU; · difficulties in integrating NPS Pharma into Shire may lead to the combined company not being able to realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits in the timeframe anticipated, or at all; · undiscovered or unanticipated risks and liabilities, including legal and compliance related liabilities, may emerge after closing the acquisition or may be higher than anticipated; · the Company may be unable to retain key NPS Pharma personnel; · the Company may not be able to retain the existing customers, suppliers and other business partners of NPS Pharma or attract new customers; and · the business of NPS Pharma may be otherwise disrupted by the acquisition, including increased costs and diversion of management time and resources. Any failure to achieve the Company’s strategic objectives with respect to the NPS Pharma acquisition could result in slower growth, higher than expected costs, the recording of asset impairment charges and other actions which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. GENERAL RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND TO THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY The actions of governments, industry regulators and the economic environments in which the Company operates may adversely affect its ability to develop and profitably market its products The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. Changes to laws or regulations impacting the healthcare industry, in any country in which the Company conducts its business, may adversely impact the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. For example, changes to the regulations relating to the exclusivity periods available for the Company’s products may allow for the earlier entry of generic or biosimilar competitor products. A slowdown of global economic growth, or economic instability of countries in which the Company does business, could have negative consequences for the Company’s business and increase the risk of non-payment by the Company’s customers Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become increasingly tied to global economic growth. Accordingly a substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy, or major national economies, could negatively affect growth in the markets in which the Company operates. Such a slowdown, or any resultant austerity measures adopted by governments in response to a slowdown, could result in national governments making significant cuts to their public spending, including national healthcare budgets, or reducing the level of reimbursement they are willing and able to provide to the Company for its products and, as a result, adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. 38 A slowdown of a nation’s economy could also lead to financial difficulties for some of the Company’s significant customers, including national governments, and result in a greater risk of delayed payments, defaults or non-payments of outstanding payment obligations by the Company’s customers in that country, which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and routinely obtains advice on matters, including the tax treatment of the break fee received in connection with AbbVie’s terminated offer for Shire in the current accounting period. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax liabilities, and the Company’s tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its accrual for tax contingencies; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. In addition, the Company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize products could result in delays in development, approval or loss of revenue The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other companies in areas such as product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing. In these partnerships, the Company is sometimes dependent on its partner to deliver results. While these partnerships are governed by contracts, the Company may not exercise direct control. If a partner fails to perform or experiences financial difficulties, the Company may suffer a delay in the development, a delay in the approval or a reduction in sales, or royalties of a product. The failure to secure new products or compounds for development either through in-licensing, acquisition or internal research and development efforts, or the failure to realize expected benefits from acquisitions of businesses or products, may have an adverse impact on the Company's future results The Company's future results will depend, to a significant extent, upon its ability to develop, in-license or acquire new products or compounds, or to acquire other businesses. The expected benefits from acquired products, compounds or businesses may not be realized or may require significantly greater resources and expenditure than originally anticipated. The failure to realize expected benefits from acquisitions of businesses or products including those resulting from integration into the Company, or the failure to develop, in-license or acquire new products or compounds on a commercially viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business The Company's success depends upon its ability and the ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights. Where possible, the Company's strategy is to register intellectual property rights, such as patents and trademarks. The Company also relies on various trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain its competitive position. The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any reason, could allow third parties to make competing products or impact the Company’s ability to develop, manufacture and market its own products on a commercially viable basis, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company intends to enforce its patent rights vigorously and believes that its commercial partners, licensors and third party manufacturers intend to enforce vigorously those patent rights they have licensed to the Company. However, the Company’s patent rights, and patent rights that the Company has licensed, may not provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to prevent any third party from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products or technologies. These patent rights may be challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third parties. Laws relating to such rights may in future also be changed or withdrawn. Additionally, the Company's products, or the technologies or processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties. It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the Company's products. The Company may need to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights from others and may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 39 The Company also relies on trade secrets and other un-patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. In addition, if the Company's employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that may be applicable to the Company's products under development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company's property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks for use in connection with its products in various countries and also, with respect to certain products, relies on the trademarks of third parties. These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not have the financial resources to enforce their rights under these trademarks which may enable others to use the trademarks and dilute their value. In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. For details of current intellectual property litigation, See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The introduction of new products by competitors may impact future revenues The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and device industries are highly competitive and are characterized by substantial investment in continuous product development and technological change. The Company faces significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of whom have substantially greater resources than the Company. In addition, many of the Company’s competitors have more products and have operated longer in the fields in which the Company competes. A number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which compete with the Company’s existing products or research programs. These competitors include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs. As a result of this competition the Company's products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomic or lose market share following the development of new products, new methods of treatment, or technological advances in manufacturing or production by competitors which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition, and results of operations. If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the Company's reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal action against the Company Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints concerning any of the Company's products, or those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products and medical devices entails a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse publicity. The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited. A successful product liability claim against the Company could require the Company to pay a substantial monetary award. If, in the absence of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could become insolvent. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Although the Company carries product liability insurance when available, this coverage may not be adequate. In addition, it cannot be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will be available. Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured or eventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Company's products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 