Risk Factors The Company has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces. While the Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against any losses. Set out below are the principal risk factors associated with the business that have been identified through the Company's risk management and internal control system. The Company believes that these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully considered before any investment is made in Shire. The Company’s products may not be a commercial success The commercial success of the Company’s marketed products and other new products that the Company may launch in the future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key decision-makers, as well as the receipt of marketing approvals in different countries, the time taken to obtain such approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product labels, approval of reimbursement at commercially sustainable prices in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products. The Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if any or all of the following occur: ·if the Company’s products, or competitive products, are genericized; ·if the prices of the Company’s products suffer forced reductions or if prices of competitor products are reduced significantly; ·if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the Company’s products or those of a competitor’s product not seen in clinical trials that impact physicians’ willingness to prescribe the Company’s products; ·if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post-marketing purposes or for registration in another country which raise questions or concerns about a product; ·if the regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that raises concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in another country; ·if patients, payers or physicians favor other treatments over the Company’s products; ·if the Company’s products are subject to more stringent government regulation than competitor products; ·if patent protection or other forms of exclusivity are lost or curtailed, or if competitors are able to successfully challenge or circumvent the Company’s patents or other forms of exclusivity (See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current litigation); ·if launches of the Company’s products in new markets are not successful; ·if the sizes of the patient populations for the Company’s products are less than expected; or ·if there are lawsuits filed against Shire, including but not limited to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, and payer or reimbursement litigation. If the Company is unable to commercialize its products successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Increased pricing pressures and limits on patient access as a result of governmental regulations and market developments may affect the Company’s future revenues, financial condition and results of operations The Company’s product revenues are subject to increasing pressures from governmental initiatives to regulate or influence prices and access to customers. Regulations in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions mandating price controls or imposing constraints on patients’ ability to purchase Shire’s products 33 significantly impacts its business, and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in the future by changes in such regulations, practices or policies. Regulatory measures that could have a material adverse effect on the Company include the imposition of government-approved drug pricing schedules, the use of drug formularies, prohibitions on direct-to-consumer advertising or drug marketing practices and caps or limits on the level of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental reimbursement schemes for its products. These pressures have also resulted in market developments, such as the consolidation of managed care organizations and private health insurers that have increased the relative bargaining power of institutional drug purchasers and enhanced their ability to negotiate discounts and extract other concessions in exchange for purchasing Shire’s products. Such regulatory and market developments create downward pressures on the prices at which the Company can offer its products and on the level of reimbursement its treatments receive from health care providers, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Additional factors affecting the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain adequate prices and levels of reimbursement for its products include: ·higher levels of controls on the use of the Company’s products and/or requirements for further price concessions mandated or negotiated by managed health care organizations or government authorities; ·legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Company's markets; and ·price controls, unsuccessful government tenders, or non-reimbursement of new medicines or new indications. Moreover, the cost of treatment for some of the Company's products is high, particularly those which are used for the treatment of rare diseases. The Company may encounter difficulty in obtaining or maintaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products. The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for its products may adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company depends on third parties to supply certain inputs and services critical to its operations including certain inputs, services and ingredients critical to its manufacturing processes The Company relies on third-party suppliers, vendors and outsourcing partners to, among other things, research, develop, manufacture and commercialize its products, to provide certain key ingredients and manufacturing inputs and to manage certain sales, distribution, marketing, information technology, accounting, transaction-processing and other business services. While the Company depends on these third parties for multiple aspects of its product development, manufacturing, commercialization and business activities, it does not control these third parties directly. As a result, there is a possibility these third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with the Company’s expectations, and their failure to meet certain contractual, regulatory or other obligations to Shire, or any disruption of Shire’s relationship with these third parties could delay or prevent the development, approval, manufacture or commercialization of the Company’s products, result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, disrupt Shire’s operations, or result in reputational or other harm to the Company. This outsourcing risk is of particular concern with respect to third-party suppliers of key manufacturing inputs of Shire’s drug products. Although the Company dual-sources certain key products and/or active ingredients, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for each of ADDERALL XR, CINRYZE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, LIALDA, PENTASA and NATPARA/NATPAR. The Company currently relies on a single active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, REPLAGAL and GATTEX/REVESTIVE and also relies on limited third party sources to provide the donated human plasma necessary for the manufacture of CINRYZE. Following the completion of the acquisition of Dyax Corp on January 22, 2016 Shire acquired DX-2930, which currently relies on separate sole sources for both production of the final drug product and supply of the active ingredient for its Phase 3 trial. In addition, one of those drug substance sites has not been approved by the FDA and would need to be approved prior to commercial launch. Any failure by a single-source supplier to provide the Company with the required volumes on time or at all, or to provide products that do not meet regulatory requirements, could lead to significant delays in the production of Shire’s products, increases in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, or the delay of new product launches, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. 34 Any disruption to the supply chain for any of the Company’s products, or any difficulties or delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of its products may result in the Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product, or may result in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis for some period of time A disruption, delay or other difficulties in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of Shire’s products, or in the supply chain of any of its products, may have a material adverse effect on the Company and its revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Examples of such manufacturing and supply chain difficulties include, but are not limited to: ·regulatory or enforcement actions that result in shut-downs, delays in or withdrawal of regulatory approvals necessary to carry on manufacturing activities, product recalls and penalties or fines resulting in unanticipated costs in production, whether imposed directly on the Company or imposed indirectly through one or more of its third-party suppliers; ·the inability of the Company to increase its production capacity for certain drugs commensurate with market demand; ·the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; ·the possibility that the Company may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout its internal and third-party supply network, or to comply with current manufacturing best practices, rules or other applicable regulations; ·disruptions to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at the Company’s facilities or at one or more of its third-party suppliers’ facilities; and ·failure to maintain the integrity of the Company’s supply chains against fraudulent and criminal acts, such as intentional product adulteration, diversion, theft, or counterfeiting activities. Also, as noted above, the Company has also entered into many agreements with third parties for the provision of goods and services to enable it to manufacture its products. If these third parties are unable to manufacture products, or provide these goods and services, in each case in accordance with its respective contractual obligations, the Company’s ability to manage its manufacturing processes or to operate its business, including to continue the development or commercialization of its products as planned or on a commercial basis, may be adversely impacted. The manufacture of the Company’s products is subject to extensive oversight by various regulatory agencies. Regulatory approvals or interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities or the delay of new product launches Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sites must be inspected and approved by regulatory agencies such as the FDA, and similar agencies in other countries. Active ingredients, excipients and packaging materials used in the manufacturing process must be obtained from sources approved by regulatory agencies. The development, approval and manufacturing of the Company's products depend on the ability to procure ingredients and packaging materials from approved sources and for the manufacturing process to be conducted at approved sites. Changes of manufacturer or changes of source of ingredients or packaging materials must generally be approved by the regulatory agencies, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with the applicable regulatory agency’s regulations and standards. The need to qualify a new manufacturer or source of ingredients or packaging materials can take a significant amount of time. Should it become necessary to change a manufacturer or supplier of ingredients or packaging materials, or to qualify an additional supplier, the Company may not be able do so quickly, or at all, which could delay or disrupt the manufacturing process. US-based manufacturers must be registered with the DEA and similar regulatory authorities in other countries if they handle controlled substances. Certain of the Company’s products, including ADDERALL XR and VYVANSE, contain ingredients which are controlled substances subject to quotas managed by the DEA. As a result, the Company’s procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand. CINRYZE, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL and VPRIV are manufactured using highly complex biological processes. The complexity of the manufacturing results in a number of risks, including the risk of microbial contamination. Additionally, CINRYZE is derived from human plasma, and is therefore subject to the risk of biological contamination inherent in plasma-derived products. The sole manufacturer of CINRYZE has received observations on Form 483 and a warning letter from the FDA identifying issues with respect to the manufacturing process for CINRYZE which 35 must be addressed to the satisfaction of the FDA. Any regulatory interventions, in relation to these, or any other issues, if they occur, may delay or disrupt the manufacture of the Company’s products. The failure to obtain regulatory approvals promptly or at all and/or regulatory interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, the delay of new product launches or constraints on manufacturing output, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a portfolio of products in various stages of research and development. The successful development of these products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time, and there is no guarantee that these products will receive regulatory approval Products that initially appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development as: ·preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety or efficacy; ·delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; regulatory requirements for clinical trial drug supplies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or dossier preparation; time required for discussions with regulatory agencies, including regulatory agency requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; delays at regulatory agencies due to staffing or resource limitations; analysis of or changes to study design; unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues; delays may arise from shared control with collaborative partners in the planning and execution of the product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing; ·manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may render the product economically unviable; ·the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; or ·submission of an application for regulatory approval of any of the Company’s product candidates may be subjected to lengthy review and ultimately rejected. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that late stage clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Moreover, once an application is submitted, additional data may be sought by regulators or an application may be rejected. If the Company’s large-scale or late-stage clinical trials for a product are not successful, the Company will not recover its substantial investments in that product. The Company has a range of programs in or entering late stage clinical development. For example, an NDA for SHP606 for the treatment of signs and symptoms of adults with DED is currently in registration with the FDA and following the acquisition of Dyax in January 2016 the Company has acquired SHP643 (formerly DX-2930) for the treatment of HAE, which is in Phase 3. In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other non-clinical testing, changes to the product label (which could impact its marketability and prospects for commercial success), new or revised requirements for manufacturing, written notifications to physicians, or product recalls or withdrawals. The actions of certain customers could affect the Company's ability to sell or market products profitably. Fluctuations in buying or distribution patterns by such customers can adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial conditions or results of operations A considerable portion of the Company’s product sales are made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as well as to large pharmacies, in both the US and Europe. In 2015, for example, 47% of the Company's product sales were attributable to three customers in the US: AmerisourceBergen Drug Corp, McKesson Corp. and Cardinal Health, Inc. In the event of financial failure of any of these customers there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations may also be affected by fluctuations in customer buying or distribution patterns. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler inventory objectives, or other factors. A significant portion of the Company's revenues for certain products for treatment of rare diseases are concentrated within a 36 small number of customers. Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations governing the sales and marketing of its products could materially impact Shire’s revenues and profitability The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, pharmaceutical products and medical devices in a number of jurisdictions around the world. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the sales and marketing practices of market participants, such as the Company, have been subject to increasing supervision by governmental authorities, and Shire believes that this trend will continue. In the United States, the Company’s sales and marketing activities are monitored by a number of regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the US Department of HHS, the FDA, the US Department of Justice, the SEC and the DEA. These authorities and agencies and their equivalents in countries outside the US have broad authority to investigate market participants for potential violations of laws relating to the sale, marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper conduct, including corrupt payments to government officials, improper payments to medical professionals, off-label marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government. Healthcare companies may also be subject to enforcement actions or prosecution for such improper conduct. Any inquiries or investigations into the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the Company by such authorities could result in significant defense costs, fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future. The Company is also subject to certain ongoing investigations by governmental agencies. For further information, see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s products are subject to intense competition from generics Shire faces significant competition from the manufacturers of generic drug products in all of its major markets. The introduction of lower-priced generics by the Company’s competitors or their successful efforts in aggressively commercializing and marketing their alternative drug products pose significant challenges to maintaining Shire’s market share, revenues and sales growth. For example, since 2009, generic versions of ADDERALL XR have been marketed and, since 2014, generic versions of INTUNIV have been marketed in the United States. As a result, product sales of ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV have declined. Factors which could cause further or more rapid declines in Shire’s product sales include: ·the loss or earlier than expected expiration of intellectual property rights or regulatory exclusivity periods with respect to the Company’s branded products; ·generic or authorized generic versions of these products capturing more of Shire’s branded market share than expected; ·lower prices and the actual or perceived greater effectiveness or safety of generic drug products relative to Shire’s branded products; ·the FDA approving additional ANDAs for generic versions of these products which, if launched, would further reduce branded market share or impact the amount of Shire’s authorized generic product sales; ·changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; or ·changes to the level of sales deductions for branded Shire products for private or public payers. 37 Should any of the above developments occur, the resulting generic competition could reduce sales and market share of Shire’s branded products and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, including the Company’s ability to enforce and defend patents and other intellectual property rights required for its business, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations During the ordinary course of its business the Company may be involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, employees, regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and other parties. The range of matters of a legal nature that might arise is extremely broad but could include, without limitation, intellectual property claims and disputes, product liability claims and disputes, regulatory litigation, contract claims and disputes, employment claims and disputes, and tax or other governmental agency audits and disputes. Any unfavorable outcome in such matters could adversely impact the Company’s ability to develop or commercialize its products, adversely affect the profitability of existing products, subject the Company to significant defense costs, fines, penalties, audit findings and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future. Any such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, financial condition or results of operations. For further information see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel from other companies and organizations The Company relies on recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees to meet its strategic objectives. The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel and the supply of people with the requisite skills may be limited, generally or geographically. The range of skills required and the geographies in which they are required by the Company may also change over time as Shire’s business evolves. If the Company is unable to retain key personnel or attract new personnel with the requisite skills and experience, it could adversely affect the implementation of the Company’s strategic objectives and ultimately adversely impact the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to successfully execute or attain strategic objectives from the Company’s acquisitions and growth strategy may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations The Company’s business depends to a significant extent on its ability to improve and expand its product pipeline through strategic acquisitions. Such improvements and expansions, however, are subject to the ability of the Company’s management to effectively identify appropriate strategic targets and effectuate the contemplated transactions, the availability and relative cost of acquisition opportunities as well as competition from other pharmaceutical companies seeking similar opportunities. Moreover, even when such transactions are successfully executed, the Company may face subsequent difficulties in integrating the operations, infrastructure and personnel of acquired businesses and may experience unanticipated risks or liabilities that were not discovered, accurately disclosed or sufficiently assessed during the transactions’ due diligence process. Finally, even successfully acquired and integrated businesses may ultimately fail or fall short of achieving the Company’s strategic objectives for the transaction over the long term. Any failures in the execution of a transaction, in the integration of an acquired business or in achieving the Company’s strategic objectives with respect to such acquisitions could result in slower growth, higher than expected costs, the recording of asset impairment charges and other actions which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has recently completed and is currently pursuing a number of strategic acquisitions. On February 21, 2015, Shire completed the acquisition of NPS Pharma for a total cash consideration of approximately $5.2 billion. On January 22, 2016 Shire also completed the acquisition of all the outstanding share capital of Dyax for a total upfront cash consideration of approximately $5.9 billion and a further approximately $0.6 billion in cash consideration contingent upon the approval of DX-2930 for the prophylactic treatment of HAE. Finally, on January 11, 2016 Shire announced a combination with Baxalta Incorporated had been agreed by both Boards. These proposed and completed acquisitions as well as future acquisitions each entail various risks, which include but are not limited to: 38 ·a proposed acquisition may not be consummated due to the occurrence of an event, change or other circumstances that gives rise to the termination of the applicable merger agreement; ·a governmental, regulatory, board, shareholder or other approval required for a proposed acquisition may not be obtained, or may be obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated, or another condition to the closing of a proposed acquisition may not be satisfied, resulting in delays or ultimate failure of consummating a proposed acquisition; ·shareholders may initiate legal action to prevent or delay consummation of a proposed acquisition or to seek judicial reevaluation of a proposed acquisition’s consideration; ·a lengthy, uncertain process when pursuing a combination could disrupt relationships between Shire and a target company’s customers, suppliers and employees, distract Shire’s or a target’s management from operating its business, and could lead to additional and unanticipated costs; ·a target company may be unable to retain and hire key personnel and/or maintain its relationships with customers, suppliers and other business partners pending the consummation of the proposed acquisition by Shire; ·after the consummation of an acquisition, the Company may be unable to retain the acquired company’s key personnel, existing customers, suppliers and other business partners or attract new customers; ·the businesses of an acquired company may be otherwise disrupted by the acquisition, including increased costs and diversion of its respective management’s time and resources; ·failure to achieve the targeted growth and expected benefits of the acquisition if sales of an acquired company’s products are lower than anticipated, or these products cannot be successfully commercialized or cannot obtain necessary regulatory approvals; ·any integration of an acquired company into Shire could be complex and time-consuming, and difficulties in effectuating these integrations may lead to the combined companies not being able to realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits in the timeframe anticipated, or at all; ·failure to successfully obtain regulatory approval of an acquired company’s late stage pipeline assets in a timely manner or at all, or to successfully commercialize such products after regulatory approval has been obtained; ·undiscovered or unanticipated risks and liabilities, including legal and compliance related liabilities, may emerge in connection with an acquisition, or may be higher than anticipated; and ·even after successfully completing an acquisition and integrating the acquired company’s businesses into Shire, the anticipated benefits of the combinations may ultimately prove less than anticipated. A slowdown of global economic growth, or economic instability of countries in which the Company does business, could have negative consequences for the Company’s business and increase the risk of non-payment by the Company’s customers Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become increasingly tied to global economic growth. Accordingly a substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy, or major national economies, could negatively affect growth in the markets in which the Company operates. Such a slowdown, or any resultant austerity measures adopted by governments in response to a slowdown, could result in national governments making significant cuts to their public spending, including national healthcare budgets, or reducing the level of reimbursement they are willing and able to provide to the Company for its products and, as a result, adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. A slowdown of a nation’s economy could also lead to financial difficulties for some of the Company’s significant customers, including national governments, and result in a greater risk of delayed orders or payments, defaults or non-payments of outstanding payment obligations by the Company’s customers in that country, which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and routinely obtains advice on matters, including the tax treatment of the break fee received in connection with the terminated offer for Shire by AbbVie Inc. (“AbbVie”) in 2014. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax 39 liabilities, and the Company’s tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its accrual for tax contingencies; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. In addition, the Company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize products could result in delays in development, approval or loss of revenue The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other companies in areas such as product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing. In these partnerships, the Company is sometimes dependent on its partner to deliver results. While these partnerships are governed by contracts, the Company may not exercise direct control. If a partner fails to perform or experiences financial difficulties, the Company may suffer a delay in the development, a delay in the approval or a reduction in sales, or royalties of a product. The failure to secure new products or compounds for development either through in-licensing, acquisition or internal research and development efforts, or the failure to realize expected benefits from acquisitions of businesses or products, may have an adverse impact on the Company's future results The Company's future results will depend, to a significant extent, upon its ability to develop, in-license or acquire new products or compounds, or to acquire other businesses. The expected benefits from acquired products, compounds or businesses may not be realized or may require significantly greater resources and expenditure than originally anticipated. The failure to realize expected benefits from acquisitions of businesses or products including those resulting from integration into the Company, or the failure to develop, in-license or acquire new products or compounds on a commercially viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business The Company's success depends upon its ability and the ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights. Where possible, the Company's strategy is to register intellectual property rights, such as patents and trademarks. The Company also relies on various trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain its competitive position. The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any reason, could allow third parties to make competing products or impact the Company’s ability to develop, manufacture and market its own products on a commercially viable basis, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company intends to enforce its patent rights vigorously and believes that its commercial partners, licensors and third party manufacturers intend to enforce vigorously those patent rights they have licensed to the Company. However, the Company’s patent rights, and patent rights that the Company has licensed, may not provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to prevent any third party from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products or technologies. These patent rights may be challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third parties. Laws relating to such rights may in future also be changed or withdrawn. Additionally, the Company's products, or the technologies or processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties. It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the Company's products. The Company may need to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights from others and may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The Company also relies on trade secrets and other un-patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. In addition, if the Company's employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that may be applicable to the Company's products under development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company's property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. 40 The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks for use in connection with its products in various countries and also, with respect to certain products, relies on the trademarks of third parties. These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not have the financial resources to enforce their rights under these trademarks which may enable others to use the trademarks and dilute their value. In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. For details of current intellectual property litigation, See ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings” to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The introduction of new products by competitors may impact future revenues The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and device industries are highly competitive and are characterized by substantial investment in continuous product development and technological change. The Company faces significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of whom have substantially greater resources than the Company. In addition, many of the Company’s competitors have more products and have operated longer in the fields in which the Company competes. A number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which compete with the Company’s existing products or research programs. These competitors include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs. As a result of this competition the Company's products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomic or lose market share following the development of new products, new methods of treatment, or technological advances in manufacturing or production by competitors which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, financial condition, and results of operations. If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the Company's reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal action against the Company Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints concerning any of the Company's products, or those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products and medical devices entail a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse publicity. The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited. A successful product liability claim against the Company could require the Company to pay a substantial monetary award. If, in the absence of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could become insolvent. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Although the Company carries product liability insurance when available, this coverage may not be adequate. In addition, it cannot be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will be available. Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured or eventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Company's products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products. The Company is dependent on information technology and its systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from service disruptions, the loss of sensitive or confidential information, cyber-attacks and other security breaches or data leakages that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations The Company relies to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate its businesses. In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects, stores and transmits large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that the Company does so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. The size and complexity of the Company’s information technology and information security systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom the Company contracts (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by the Company’s employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. 41 The Company and its vendors’ sophisticated information technology operations are spread across multiple, sometimes inconsistent platforms, which pose difficulties in maintaining data integrity across systems. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in the Company’s systems. The Company and its vendors could also be susceptible to third party attacks on their information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, “hackers” and others. While the Company has taken steps to protect such information and invested heavily in information technology, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in its systems, the loss of data or other confidential information due to a lack of redundant backup systems, or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential information that could adversely affect the Company’s business operations or result in the loss, dissemination, or misuse of critical or sensitive information. A breach of the Company’s security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use the Company’s proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect the Company’s business position. Further, any such interruption, security breach, loss or disclosure of confidential information, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, legislators and/or regulators in countries in which the Company operates are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws, as well as focusing on increased privacy-related enforcement activity, that potentially could have a significant impact on the Company’s current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, its collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of its current or planned business activities. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with Baxalta Incorporated Failure to consummate the merger as contemplated could negatively impact the price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs and the future business and financial results of the Company and/or the combined company The consummation of the merger of BearTracks, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”) within and into Baxalta, with Baxalta surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the “merger”) may be delayed, the merger may be consummated on terms different than those contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 11, 2016, as it may be amended from time to time, (the “merger agreement”) between the Company, Merger Sub and Baxalta, or the merger may not be consummated at all. Failure to consummate the merger would prevent the Company’s ordinary shareholders from realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger. The current market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to consummate the merger could result in a significant decline in the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs and a negative perception of the Company generally. Any delay in the consummation of the merger or any uncertainty about the consummation of the merger could also negatively impact the share price and future business and financial results of the Company and/or the combined company following the proposed merger. There is no assurance that Shire and Baxalta will be able to obtain the required governmental and regulatory approvals to consummate the merger, which, if delayed or not granted, may delay or jeopardize the merger The merger is conditioned on the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, merger control approval under the relevant merger control laws of the European Union and the consent of certain other merger control authorities and other governmental entities. The governmental and regulatory agencies from which Shire and Baxalta are seeking these approvals have broad discretion in administering the applicable governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, those agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. The required approvals may not be obtained or the required conditions to the merger may not be satisfied, or, even if the required approvals are obtained and the conditions to the consummation of the merger are satisfied, the terms, conditions and timing of such approvals are uncertain. Any delay in consummating the merger could cause Shire and/or the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that Shire expects to achieve if the merger is successfully consummated within the expected time frame. 42 The merger remains subject to additional conditions, some of which Shire and Baxalta cannot control, which could result in the merger not being consummated or being delayed, any of which could negatively impact the share price and future business and operating results of the Company and/or the combined company The merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of other conditions in addition to the approval of governmental authorities described above, including, but not limited to, (i) the approval of the issuance of ordinary shares and ADSs by the Company’s ordinary shareholders; (ii) the adoption of the merger agreement by the stockholders of Baxalta; (iii) effectiveness of a registration statement on Form S-4 registering ordinary shares to be issued in the merger; (iv) the absence of any orders, injunctions or rulings, or laws that would have the effect of enjoining or preventing the consummation of the merger; (v) the approval of the United Kingdom Listing Authority (the “UKLA”) of a prospectus relating to the ordinary shares and a circular convening a meeting of Shire’s ordinary shareholders; (vi) approval from the NASDAQ Global Select Market to list the ADSs; (vii) approval of the UKLA and London Stock Exchange to list the ordinary shares; and (viii) Section 4.02 of the tax matters agreement dated as of June 30, 2015 (the “tax matters agreement”), by and between Baxter International Inc. (“Baxter”) and Baxalta, shall have been waived with respect to the closing of the merger, pursuant to the terms of the letter agreement, dated as of January 11, 2016 (the “letter agreement”), among the Company, Baxter and Baxalta, and each of the Company and Baxalta shall have received from Baxter a certificate, as described in the letter agreement, to the effect that the tax advisor to Baxter has furnished an opinion in substantially the same form and substance as the tax opinion delivered by such advisor on the date immediately prior to the signing of the merger agreement. Certain conditions to the merger may not be satisfied or, if they are, the timing of such satisfaction is uncertain. If any conditions to the merger are not satisfied or, where waiver is permitted by applicable law, not waived, the merger will not be consummated. The merger is not subject to a financing condition. While Shire has secured an $18 billion fully underwritten bank facility of which $13 billion is available to finance the cash component of the per share merger consideration, certain customary conditions precedent to funding must be satisfied in order for the Company to utilize its bank facility, and if such conditions are not satisfied or if the Company’s lenders do not satisfy their funding commitment, the Company may be unable to obtain the funds necessary to consummate the merger. If for any reason the merger is not completed or the closing of the merger is significantly delayed, the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs and business and results of operations of the Company and/or the combined company may be adversely affected. Lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed, against the Company and Baxalta and Baxalta’s board of directors challenging the merger, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may delay or prevent the completion of the merger or result in an award of damages against the Company Multiple putative class action complaints have been filed by purported Baxalta stockholders in connection with the merger. The complaints generally allege that the members of the Baxalta board breached their fiduciary duties to Baxalta stockholders by entering into the merger agreement and approving the merger, and that the Company, Baxalta and/or Merger Sub, aided and abetted such breaches of fiduciary duties. The complaints further allege that, among other things, the per share merger consideration undervalues Baxalta and certain provisions of the merger agreement inappropriately inhibit competing bids. The complaints seek, among other things, to enjoin the merger. Additional lawsuits arising out of or relating to the merger agreement or the merger may be filed in the future. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict and could delay or prevent the completion of the merger. The existence of litigation relating to the merger could impact the likelihood of obtaining the stockholder approvals from either the Company or Baxalta. Moreover, the pending litigation is, and any future additional litigation could be, time consuming and expensive and could divert the Company’s management’s attention away from their regular business. One of the conditions to completion of the merger is the absence of any law or judgment issued by any court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction that prevents, makes illegal or prohibits the closing of the merger. Accordingly, if a plaintiff is successful in obtaining a judgment prohibiting completion of the merger, then such judgment may prevent the merger from being completed, or from being completed within the expected time frame. If the proposed merger is not completed, the Company will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect the Company’s financial results and operations The Company has incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger with Baxalta. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and financial advisors. In addition, the Company diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the merger and are subject to restrictions contained in the merger agreement on the conduct of the Company’s business during the pendency of the merger. If the merger is not completed, the Company will have received little or no benefit in respect of such costs incurred. 43 The merger agreement restricts the Company’s ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, however, in specified circumstances, the Company may terminate the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal Under the merger agreement, the Company has agreed not to (1) take certain actions to solicit proposals relating to alternative business combination transactions or (2) subject to certain exceptions, including the receipt of a “parent superior proposal” (as such term is defined in the merger agreement), enter into discussions or an agreement concerning, or provide confidential information in connection with, any proposals for alternative business combination transactions. However, in specified circumstances, the Company may terminate the merger agreement to enter into a definitive agreement with response to a “parent superior proposal” prior to obtaining approval of the merger from its stockholders. Upon termination of the merger agreement in specified circumstances, the Company would be required to disburse a termination fee equal to $369 million to Baxalta and/or reimburse Baxalta for its merger-related expenses in an amount not to exceed $65 million, which expense reimbursement would be offset against any termination fee subsequently disbursed. Following the disbursement of the termination fee and/or reimbursement of merger-related expenses, the Company will, other than in certain circumstances, have no further obligation or liabilities to Baxalta. Such termination would deny the Company and its respective stockholders any benefits from the merger and could negatively impact market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of the Company from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to enter into a transaction that is more favorable to the Company or the Company’s ordinary shareholders than the merger. In specified circumstances, Baxalta could terminate the merger agreement to accept an alternative proposal Under the merger agreement, Baxalta may terminate the merger agreement to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to a “company superior proposal” (as such term is defined in the merger agreement) prior to obtaining approval of the merger from its ordinary shareholders. In such event, Baxalta would be obligated to disburse a termination fee equal to $369 million, but would have no further obligation or liabilities to the Company. Such termination would deny the Company and its stockholders any benefits from the merger and could negatively impact the price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs. Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise affect the future business and operations of Shire and the combined company Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company and, if the proposed combination with Baxalta is consummated, on the combined company following the merger. These consequent uncertainties may impair the Company’s, and following the closing of the merger, the combined company’s, ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could also cause customers, suppliers, licensees, partners and other business partners to defer entering into contracts with, making other decisions concerning, or seeking to change existing business relationships with the Company, and following the closing of the merger, the combined company. Because the Company depends on the experience and industry knowledge of their executives and other key personnel to execute their business plans, the combined company may be unable to meet its strategic objectives. While the merger is pending, the Company may not be able to hire qualified personnel to replace any key employees that may depart to the same extent that they have been able to in the past. In addition, if the merger is not completed, the Company may also encounter challenges in hiring qualified personnel to replace key employees that may depart the Company subsequent to the merger announcement. Risks Related to the Combined Company Following the Merger The Company may not successfully integrate the businesses of Shire and Baxalta If the merger is consummated, achieving the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination of Shire and Baxalta will depend in part upon whether the two companies integrate their businesses in an effective and efficient manner. The Company may not be able to accomplish this integration process successfully. The integration of businesses is complex and time-consuming. The difficulties that could be encountered include the following: ·integrating personnel, operations and systems, while maintaining focus on selling and promoting existing and newly acquired or produced products; ·coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; ·distraction of management and employees from operations; ·changes or conflicts in corporate culture; ·management’s inability to manage a substantial increase in the number of employees; 44 ·management’s inability to train and integrate personnel, who may have limited experience with the respective companies’ business lines and products, and to deliver a consistent message regarding diseases treated by the combined company; ·retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; ·retaining existing employees and attracting new employees; ·maintaining business relationships; and ·inefficiencies associated with the integration and management of the operations of the combined company. In addition, there will be integration costs and non-recurring transaction costs (such as fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors and other fees paid in connection with the merger) associated with the proposed merger, including costs associated with combining their operations and achieving the synergies the Company expects to obtain, and such costs may be significant. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination of Shire and Baxalta, including estimated cost synergies, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process and realizing such benefits, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the combined company, which may materially adversely affect the value of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs after the consummation of the merger. The Company will incur significant additional indebtedness in connection with the merger, which will decrease the combined company’s business flexibility and increase its interest expense. All of the Company’s debt obligations, and any future indebtedness the Company may incur, will have priority over the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs with respect to payment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up The Company has secured an $18 billion fully underwritten bank facility, of which $13 billion is available to finance the cash component of the per share merger consideration. The Company has announced that it intends to maintain an investment grade credit rating for the combined company, but one or more credit rating agencies may determine that the combined company’s credit rating is below investment grade, which could increase the combined company’s borrowing costs. The combined company’s indebtedness following consummation of the merger could have the effect, among other things, of reducing the combined company’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions as well as reducing funds available for capital expenditures, acquisitions, and creating competitive disadvantages for the combined company relative to other companies with lower indebtedness levels. The Company will also incur various costs and expenses associated with the debt financing. The Company intends to refinance the bank facility through capital market debt issuances in due course. Its ability to refinance the indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and the combined company’s financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require the combined company to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations and such refinancing may not be available at all. Moreover, the combined company may be required to raise substantial additional financing to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions. The combined company’s ability to arrange additional financing and the costs of that financing will depend on, among other factors, the combined company’s financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond Shire’s control. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Shire, the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs would rank below all debt claims against Shire or any of its subsidiaries. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities or other equity securities that Shire may issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs. As a result, holders of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon any liquidation or dissolution until after Shire’s obligations to its debt holders and holders of equity securities, which rank senior to the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs, have been satisfied. 45 The merger could result in significant liability to Baxalta and the Company if the merger causes the spin-off of Baxalta from Baxter or a Later Distribution, as defined below, to be taxable Under the letter agreement, from and after the closing of the merger, Baxalta agreed to indemnify, and the Company agreed to guarantee such indemnity to, Baxter and each of its affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors and employees against certain tax-related losses attributable to, or resulting from, in whole or in part, the merger. If the contribution of property by Baxter in one or more transfers to Baxalta in exchange for shares of Baxalta common stock, cash, and the assumption of certain liabilities, together with the distribution by Baxter on July 1, 2015 of approximately 80.5% of the shares of Baxalta common stock to shareholders of Baxter (the “spin-off”) and/or a Later Distribution, collectively, the “Baxter Transactions”, are determined to be taxable as a result, in whole or in part, of the merger (for example, if the merger is deemed to be part of a plan, or series of related transactions, that includes the Baxter Transactions), Baxter and its shareholders could incur significant tax liabilities, and under the tax matters agreement, and the letter agreement, Baxalta and the Company may be required to indemnify Baxter for any such tax liabilities. Baxter’s waiver of the provisions under the tax matters agreement restricting Baxalta’s ability to enter into and consummate the merger will not relieve Baxalta or the Company of its obligation to indemnify Baxter if the merger causes any of the Baxter Transactions to be taxable. In connection with the signing of the merger agreement, the Company received an opinion from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, tax counsel to the Company, to the effect that the merger will not cause Baxter’s contribution of assets to Baxalta, Baxter’s initial distribution of Baxalta shares on July 1, 2015, Baxter’s distribution of cash received from Baxalta to its creditors or a Later Distribution to fail to qualify as tax-free to Baxter and its shareholders under Sections 355, 361 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The merger is conditioned on the receipt by the Company at the time of the consummation of the merger of a tax opinion to the same effect. The tax opinion referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph is based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by the Company, Baxter and Baxalta. If any of the factual representations or the assumptions in the tax opinion is untrue or incomplete in any material respect, an undertaking is not complied with or the facts upon which the tax opinion is based are materially different from the facts at the time of the merger, the opinion may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of counsel are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). As a result, the conclusions expressed in the tax opinion could be challenged by the IRS. None of the Company, Baxalta or Baxter has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the impact of the merger on the tax treatment of the Baxter Transactions. Further, the tax opinion does not address all tax aspects of the spin-off, a Later Distribution and other related transactions and it is possible the Company may be obligated to indemnify Baxter despite the continuing validity of the tax opinion. The Company’s indemnification obligations to Baxter and its subsidiaries, officers, directors and employees under the tax matters agreement and letter agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. If Baxalta or the Company is required to indemnify Baxter and its subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors and employees under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, as supplemented by the letter agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on Baxalta and the Company. In this annual report, references to the “Later Distributions” includes the following transactions that may be undertaken by Baxter: (i) any debt-for-equity exchange (and related underwritten offering) with respect to Baxalta shares, (ii) any offer to exchange Baxter shares for Baxalta shares, (iii) a contribution of Baxalta shares to Baxter’s U.S. pension fund, and/or (iv) a dividend of Baxalta shares to Baxter’s stockholders, in each case, that are undertaken prior to the earlier of any Baxalta or Company stockholder vote with respect to the merger and that are intended to be part of a plan that includes the spin-off. Certain Baxalta agreements may contain change of control provisions that may be triggered by the merger that, if not waived, could cause the combined company to lose the benefit of such agreement and incur liabilities or replacement costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the combined company Baxalta and its affiliates are each party to various agreements with third parties, including certain license agreements, business development-related agreements, production and distribution related agreements, bonding/financing facilities, contracts for the performance of services material to the operations of Baxalta and/or its affiliates, IT contracts, technology licenses and employment agreements that may contain change of control provisions that could be triggered upon the closing of the merger. Agreements with change of control provisions typically provide for or permit the termination of the agreement upon the occurrence of a change of control of one of the parties which can be waived by the relevant counterparties. In the event that there is such a contract or arrangement requiring a consent or waiver in relation the merger, there can be no assurance that such consent will be obtained at all or on favorable terms. If such a waiver is not obtained from any such counterparty, the combined company could lose the benefit of the underlying agreement and incur liabilities or replacement costs, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company. 46 Sales of the Company’s ordinary shares and/or ADSs in anticipation of the merger, and resales of such shares following the consummation of the merger, may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and/or ADSs prior to, and following, the merger Certain Baxalta stockholders, such as index funds or funds with concentration, geographic or other limitations on their permitted investments, may be required to sell ordinary shares or ADSs of Shire that they receive in the merger. Other Baxalta stockholders may already hold ordinary shares or ADSs of Shire and those stockholders may decide not to hold the shares that they receive in the merger. Such sales of ordinary shares or ADSs could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and/or ADSs. Upon consummation of the merger, the Company expects that it will issue up to approximately 311 million ordinary shares, based on the number of shares of Baxalta common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2015, in the aggregate In addition, the per share merger consideration represents a premium of approximately 37.5% to the unaffected share price of Baxalta common stock on August 3, 2015, the day prior to the public announcement of the Company’s initial offer for Baxalta, based on the closing price of the Company’s ADSs on January 8, 2016, which may cause significant arbitrage activity by investors seeking to take advantage of the price differential. This risk of dilution coupled with the possibility of merger arbitrage activity could result in downward pressure on the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs and encourage third parties to engage in short sales of the Company’s shares. In addition, these factors could also make it more difficult for the combined company to raise funds through future offerings of ordinary shares and ADSs. The issuance of ordinary shares and ADSs in the merger and the sale of additional ordinary shares or ADSs that may become eligible for sale in the public market from time to time upon exercise of options or the vesting of restricted securities will further dilute the combined company’s ordinary shares and/or ADSs. Moreover, the increase in the number of ordinary shares or ADSs, or an increase in the number of such shares outstanding following a future issuance, sale or transfer of such ordinary shares or ADSs by the Company or the possibility of such an issue, sale or transfer may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs. The market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by reports of third-party analysts published in connection with the consummation of the merger The trading market for the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about Shire and its industry. In connection with the consummation of the merger, one or more of these analysts could downgrade the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs or issue other negative commentary about Shire or its industry, which could cause the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. The market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs may be affected by factors different from those affecting the market price for shares of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs prior to the merger If the merger is consummated, the risks associated with the combined company may affect the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs following the merger differently than they could affect the results of operations of Shire and the market price of its securities while it is a separate company. Additionally, the results of operations of the combined company may be affected by additional or different factors than those that currently affect the results of operations of Shire, including, but not limited to: complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing products and services; and potential performance shortfalls resulting from the diversion of management’s attention caused by integrating the companies’ operations. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 47 