Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the Company’s common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. The Bank has entered into a memorandum of understanding with the OTS that will entail compliance costs. Failure to comply with the memorandum of understanding could result in formal enforcement action or regulatory constraints on the Bank. On July 28, 2010, the Bank entered into a memorandum of understanding with the OTS that requires the Bank to take a number of actions, including among other things: (1) develop a written enterprise risk management program; (2) enhance policies and procedures with respect to construction lending, portfolio valuation and interest rate risk management; (3) develop action plans and programs in the areas of consumer compliance, fair lending, information technology, business continuity and information security; and (4) monitor the Bank’s performance results against its business plan. The memorandum of understanding does not affect dividend policy or require additional capital. Management believes that it is now near completion with the measures required by the memorandum of understanding, although compliance will be determined by the OTS and not by us. Compliance with the memorandum of understanding will increase the Bank’s non-interest expenses in amounts that are not expected to, but may be, material to our results of operations. The memorandum of understanding and the factors that gave rise to it also may have the effect of limiting or delaying our ability or plans to expand strategically. Moreover, a material failure to comply with the memorandum of understanding could subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny or result in a formal enforcement action or constraints on the Bank’s business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, financial condition, growth objectives or other aspects of our business. The requirements of the memorandum of understanding will remain in effect until the OTS decides to terminate, suspend or modify it. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing 30 foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment will have an adverse effect on our borrowers and their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us. A further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and demand, the job market and the demand for other goods and services have resulted, and may continue to cause the credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios to deteriorate, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. The effects of the current economic recession have been particularly severe in our primary market areas. Substantially all of our loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in the Pacific Northwest, Arizona, Utah and Nevada and our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas. The Pacific Northwest has one of the nation’s highest unemployment rates and major employers in Oregon and Washington have recently implemented substantial employee layoffs or scaled back growth plans. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and A downturn in the real estate market has hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in real estate lending. The market for residential housing has experienced dramatic declines in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. A downturn in the real estate market hurts the Company’s business because the vast majority of its loans are secured by real estate. The Company’s provision for loan losses in fiscal 2010 was significantly higher than historical amounts, prior to the current economic downturn. Actions by other lenders or bank regulators could further depress the value of our real estate holdings, if lenders aggressively dispose of properties. If the significant decline in market values continues, the collateral for the Company’s loans will provide increasingly less security. As a result, the Company’s ability to recover the principal amount due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and the Company will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. 31 We also increased the amount of real estate we own as a result of foreclosures relating to non-performing loans in fiscal 2010. We believe that it may prove less expensive to hold land or finished lots on which we foreclose until market conditions improve, rather than sell at current market prices. If other lenders or borrowers liquidate significant amounts of real estate in a rapid or disorderly fashion or if the FDIC elects to dispose of significant amounts of real estate from failed financial institutions in a similar fashion, it could have an adverse effect on the values of the properties we own. In such case, we may incur further write-downs and charge-offs, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition The Company may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting and loan collection practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting and loan collection practices. Underwriting practices often include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral; obtaining personal guarantees of loans to businesses; and verification of liquid assets. If the underwriting process fails to capture accurate information or proves to be inadequate, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and those losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses. Our loan collection practices have expanded to meet the increase in nonperforming loans in response to the current economic environment and to service the loans from our acquisitions. This has increased loan administration costs. It has also exposed the Company to risks of improper documentation or foreclosure proceedings. There is also the risk that loss sharing agreements with the FDIC may not be fulfilled. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and changes in market interest rates may negatively affect its results of operations and financial condition. Management is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including inflation, recession, unemployment, monetary policy, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and investor and consumer demand. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of single-family residential loans) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by long-term (10 year) interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates, the pace at which such movements occur, and the volume and mix of our interest-bearing assets and liabilities. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on our interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits; the fair values of our securities and other financial assets; the fair values of our liabilities; and the average lives of our loan and securities portfolios. Decreases in interest rates could lead to increased loan refinancing activity which, in turn, would alter the balance of our interest-earning assets and impact net interest income. Increases in interest rates could reduce loan refinancing activity which may result in compression of the spread between loan yields and funding rates. The Company is exposed to movements in market rates to a degree that may not be experienced by other financial institutions. The Company accepts this higher level of interest rate risk as a result of its significant portfolio of fixed-rate single-family home loans that are longer-term in nature than the characteristics of its liabilities of customer accounts and short-term borrowed money. The Company manages its interest rate risk in part through growing the fixed-rate loan portfolio when yields are higher and focusing on loans or investments with shorter term characteristics, such as construction or 32 commercial loans, when loan rates are lower. This balance sheet strategy in conjunction with a strong capital position has allowed the Company to manage interest rate risk through all interest rate cycles. Low operating costs have contributed further to the strong capital position. Unlike some lenders, we have chosen not to hedge our exposure to interest rates through the use of complicated derivatives. Although the company has implemented asset and liability management policies and procedures that seek to manage this interest rate risk, these policies may not be successful. The Company relies, in part, on external financing to fund its operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact its growth and prospects. The Company relies on deposits (primarily certificates of deposit), advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and other borrowings to fund its operations. Management has historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired; however the Company may not be able to replace such funds at any given point in time if its financial condition or market conditions were to change or the cost of doing so might adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Although the Company considers its sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, it may seek additional debt in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. Such borrowings, if sought, may not be available to the Company or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and other limitations which may affect its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. Washington Federal is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, Washington Federal Savings, and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from Washington Federal Savings is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Washington Federal Savings and other factors, that the OTS, Washington Federal Savings’ primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. If Washington Federal Savings is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Washington Federal Savings could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • variations in our and our competitors’ operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future performance and the future performance of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships; • additions or departure of key personnel; • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us; • general conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets; • general conditions in the United States; • the presence or absence of short selling of our common stock; and • future sales of our common stock or debt securities. 33 The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Persons holding our common stock could have the voting power of their shares of common stock on all matters significantly reduced under Washington’s anti-takeover statutes, if the person holds in excess of 10% of the voting power in the election of directors. We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, with limited exceptions, prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in specified “significant business transactions” for a period of five years after the share acquisition by an acquiring person, unless: • the prohibited transaction or the acquiring person’s purchase of shares was approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the acquiring person’s share acquisition; or • the prohibited transaction was both approved by the majority of the members of the target corporation’s board and authorized at a shareholder meeting by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting shares (excluding the acquiring person’s shares) at or subsequent to the acquiring person’s share acquisition. An acquiring person is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially own 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things: • certain mergers, or consolidations with, disposition of assets to, or issuances of stock to or redemption of stock from, the acquiring person; • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; • allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder; and • liquidating or dissolving the target corporation. After the five-year period, certain “significant business transactions” are only permitted, if they comply with certain “fair price” provisions of the statute or are approved by a majority of the outstanding shares other than those of which the acquirng person has beneficial ownership. As a Washington corporation, we are not permitted to “opt out” of this statute. The recently publicized foreclosure issues affecting the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers could impact our foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures. Several of the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers have experienced highly publicized issues with respect to their foreclosure processes. As a result, some of these servicers have self imposed moratoriums on their foreclosures and have been the subject of state attorney general scrutiny and consumer lawsuits. In light of these issues, we have reviewed our foreclosure policies and procedures and have not found it necessary to interrupt any foreclosures. These foreclosure process issues and the potential legal and regulatory responses could impact the foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, including the Company. Over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases as a result of the economic downturn, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process and voluntary and, in some cases, mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. Further increases in the foreclosure timeline may have an adverse effect on collateral values and our ability to minimize our losses. Our ability to originate mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the U.S. Government and Government-Sponsored Enterprises (“GSEs”) in the residential mortgage market. Over the past few years, we have faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market as a result of the recent economic crisis, which has caused the interest rate for thirty year fixed rate mortgage loans that conform to GSE guidelines to remain artificially low. In addition, the U.S. 34 Congress recently extended through September 2011 the expanded conforming loan limits in many of our operating markets, allowing larger balance loans to continue to be acquired by the GSEs. As a result, more loans in our portfolio qualified under the expanding conforming loan limits and were refinanced into conforming fixed rate mortgages which we originate but do not retain for portfolio. We expect that our one-to-four family mortgage loan repayments will remain at elevated levels and will continue to outpace our loan production as a result of these factors, making it difficult for us to grow our mortgage loan portfolio and balance sheet. The Company may need to continue to increase its allowance for loan losses in material amounts. We have also experienced and may continue to experience increases in net charge-offs. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Our allowance for loan losses is based on these judgments, as well as historical loss experience and an evaluation of the other risks associated with our loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions or judgments used to determine the allowance prove to be incorrect, if the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases substantially or if our regulators disagree with our judgments, we may need to increase the allowance in amounts that exceed our expectations. Material additions to the allowance would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recorded a $179.9 million provision for loan losses during the year ended September 30, 2010, compared to a $193 million provision for the year ended September 30, 2009. Our non-performing assets amounted to $434.5 million or 3.22% of total assets at September 30, 2010, compared to $557 million or 4.43% of total assets one year ago. We had net charge-offs of $184 million for the year ended September 30, 2010 compared with $111 million of net charge-offs for the year ended September 30, 2009. The decrease in the provision for loan losses is in response to improving credit conditions in the loan portfolio. We expect our loan loss provision to remain at elevated levels until non-performing assets and charge-offs improve substantially. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. The Company is subjected to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) and by the FDIC. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, the OTS will be abolished and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) will become our primary regulator. In addition, the Federal Reserve Bank will be made responsible for regulating the holding company, Washington Federal, Inc. Our thrift charter is not anticipated to change. As a result and due to restrictions on our activities as a result of the thrift charter, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the OTS, OCC and the FDIC have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could result in a range of sanctions and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil money penalties, formal agreements and cease and desist orders. In addition, the OTS and the FDIC have specific authority to take “prompt corrective action,” depending on our capital level. Currently, we 35 are considered “well-capitalized” for prompt corrective action purposes. If we were to drop to the “adequately capitalized” level, the OTS could restrict our ability to take brokered deposits. If we were to fall to the lower capital levels—“undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”—we would be required to raise additional capital and also would be subject to progressively more severe restrictions on our operations, management and capital distributions; replacement of senior executive officers and directors; and, if we became “critically undercapitalized,” to the appointment of a conservator or receiver. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business. The Dodd Frank legislation passed in 2010 is expected to have a substantial impact on the financial services industry. This bill creates a framework through which regulatory reform will be written, rather than providing the regulatory reform itself. A major component is the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council “(“FSOC”) that will have the latitude to rewrite the bill itself or make new regulations at any time in the future. The Company faces strong competition from other financial institutions, offering services similar to those offered by us. Many competitors offer the types of loans and deposit services that the Company offers. These competitors include other savings associations, community banks, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company’s competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Increased competition within the Company’s market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete as successfully against current and future competitors. Difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired companies with Washington Federal Savings’ own operations may prevent it from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. Washington Federal Savings has historically expanded its business through mergers with competitors and acquisitions of particular thrift assets. We intend to continue to consider additional growth opportunities, including purchases of failed thrifts and banks or their assets from the FDIC. We may not be able to fully realize the strategic and operating efficiencies in an acquisition. Inherent uncertainties exist in the operations of an acquired entity. Although the Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management, it is possible that Washington Federal may lose customers or key personnel of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. In addition, the market conditions where Washington Federal and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. These factors could contribute to Washington Federal not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all. Failure to successfully manage the operational risks associated with technology may adversely affect Washington Federal Savings’ business operations. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies and provide improved security in our operations. In order to meet these needs, Washington Federal Savings has implemented substantial changes to its core operating system during 2010. We may not be able to successfully manage the new core operating system in an effective manner or integrate the system with the operations of acquired institutions. Interruption or failure of our core operating system creates a risk of business loss such as civil fines or damage claims from privacy breaches and adverse customer experience. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect the Company from all risk associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in controls. In addition, we may incur significant increases in technology costs. Failure to effectively manage our core operating system may adversely affect Washington Federal Savings’ operations as well as customer perceptions. 36 We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including legal and compliance risk, fraud and theft risk and the risk of operational errors, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by our regulators, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve large monetary claims, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Both internal and external fraud and theft are risks. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Operational errors include clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or tampering or manipulation of those systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are exposed to the risk that our business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, additional costs to correct defects, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to stockholders of our common stock. For instance, exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program diluted the value of our common shares. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 37 