Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the Company’s common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment will have an adverse effect on our borrowers and their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us. A further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and demand, the job market and the demand for other goods and services have resulted, and may continue to cause the credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios to deteriorate, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. 24 • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. • As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. The effects of the current economic recession have been particularly severe in our primary market areas. Substantially all of our loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in the Pacific Northwest, Arizona, Utah and Nevada and our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas. The Pacific Northwest has one of the nation’s highest unemployment rates and major employers in Oregon and Washington have recently implemented substantial employee layoffs or scaled back growth plans. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and • Investments in mortgage-backed securities may decline in value as a result of performance of the underlying loans or the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and changes in market interest rates may negatively affect its results of operations and financial condition. Management is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of single-family residential loans) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by long term (30-year) interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates, the pace at which such movements occur, and the volume and mix of our interest-bearing assets and liabilities. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on our interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. 25 In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits; the fair values of our securities and other financial assets; the fair values of our liabilities; and the average lives of our loan and securities portfolios. Decreases in interest rates could lead to increased loan refinancing activity which, in turn, would alter the balance of our interest-earning assets and impact net interest income. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: • Inflation; • Recession; • Unemployment; • Monetary policy; • Domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and • Investor and consumer demand. The matching of assets and liabilities may be analyzed by examining the extent to which such assets and liabilities are “interest rate sensitive” and by monitoring a bank’s interest rate sensitivity “gap.” An asset or liability is said to be interest rate sensitive within a specific time frame if it will mature or reprice within that period of time. The interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame and the amount of interest-bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within that same period of time. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the cost of its interest-bearing liabilities than it would in the yield on its interest-earning assets, thus producing a decline in its net interest income. Conversely, in a declining rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected to experience a lesser reduction in the yield on its interest-earning assets than it would in the cost of its interest-bearing liabilities, thus producing an increase in its net interest income. At September 30, 2009, the Company had a negative one-year gap of 32.9%, as compared to a negative one-year gap of 33.8% at September 30, 2008. Unlike some lenders, we have chosen not to hedge our exposure to interest rates through the use of derivatives or other methods. Moreover, from time to time our risk position is not balanced, which may expose us to interest rate risk with movements in market rates to a degree not experienced by other financial institutions. We have implemented asset and liability management policies that seek to manage this risk, but those policies may not be successful. The Company relies, in part, on external financing to fund its operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact its growth and prospects. The Company relies on deposits (primarily certificates of deposit), advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and other borrowings to fund its operations. Management has historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired; however the Company may not be able to replace such funds at any given point in time if its financial condition or market conditions were to change or the cost of doing so might adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 26 Although the Company considers its sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, it may seek additional debt in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. Such borrowings, if sought, may not be available to the Company or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. 27 The Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and other limitations which may affect its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. Washington Federal is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, Washington Federal Savings, and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from Washington Federal Savings is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Washington Federal Savings and other factors, that the OTS, Washington Federal Savings’ primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. If Washington Federal Savings is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Washington Federal Savings could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • variations in our and our competitors’ operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future performance and the future performance of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships; • additions or departure of key personnel; • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us; • general conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets; • general conditions in the United States; • the presence or absence of short selling of our common stock; and • future sales of our common stock or debt securities. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Persons holding our common stock could have the voting power of their shares of common stock on all matters significantly reduced under Washington’s anti-takeover statutes, if the person holds in excess of 10% of the voting power in the election of directors. We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, with limited exceptions, prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in specified “significant business transactions” for a period of five years after the share acquisition by an acquiring person, unless: • the prohibited transaction or the acquiring person’s purchase of shares was approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the acquiring person’s share acquisition; or • the prohibited transaction was both approved by the majority of the members of the target corporation’s board and authorized at a shareholder meeting by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting shares (excluding the acquiring person’s shares) at or subsequent to the acquiring person’s share acquisition. 28 An acquiring person is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially own 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things: • certain mergers, or consolidations with, disposition of assets to, or issuances of stock to or redemption of stock from, the acquiring person; • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; • allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder; and • liquidating or dissolving the target corporation. After the five-year period, certain “significant business transactions” are only permitted, if they comply with certain “fair price” provisions of the statute or are approved by a majority of the outstanding shares other than those of which the acquiring person has beneficial ownership. As a Washington corporation, we are not permitted to “opt out” of this statute. 29 The Company may need to continue to increase its allowance for loan losses in material amounts. We have also experienced and may continue to experience increases in net charge-offs. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Our allowance for loan losses is based on these judgments, as well as historical loss experience and an evaluation of the other risks associated with our loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions or judgments used to determine the allowance prove to be incorrect, if the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases substantially or if our regulators disagree with our judgments, we may need to increase the allowance in amounts that exceed our expectations. Material additions to the allowance would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recorded a $193million provision for loan losses during the year ended September 30, 2009, compared to a $60.5million provision for the year ended September 30, 2008. Our non-performing assets amounted to $557million or 4.43% of total assets at September 30, 2009, compared to $164million or 1.39% of total assets one year ago. We had net charge-offs of $111million for the year ended September 30, 2009 compared with $15million of net charge-offs for the year ended September 30, 2008. This significant increase in the provision for loan losses is in response to three primary factors: first, the overall deterioration in the housing market in general in our eight western state territory; second, the significant increase in the combined balance of non-performing assets in our land acquisition and development and speculative construction portfolios; and finally, the material increase in net charge-offs for the year. We expect our loan loss provision to remain at elevated levels until non-performing assets and charge-offs improve. The Company’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact its operating results and financial condition. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in the Pacific Northwest, could hurt our business. The Company’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond its control. Investments in U.S. government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, declined significantly in value, after the U.S Government placed both companies into conservatorship in September 2008. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for its products and services may decline; • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with its loans; and • Investments in mortgage-backed securities may decline in value as a result of the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral. A downturn in the real estate market has hurt the Company’s business. Actions by other lenders or bank regulators could further depress the value of our real estate holdings. The Company’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in real estate lending. During fiscal 2009, the market for residential housing has experienced dramatic declines, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. The Company significantly increased its provision for loan losses in fiscal 2009. A downturn in the real estate market hurts the Company’s business because the vast majority of its loans are secured by real estate. If the significant decline in market values continues, the collateral for the Company’s loans will provide increasingly less security. As a result, the Company’s ability to recover the principal amount due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and the Company will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. 30 In fiscal year 2009, we increased the amount of real estate we own as a result of foreclosures relating to non-performing loans. We believe that it may prove less expensive to hold land or finished lots on which we foreclose until market conditions improve, rather than sell at current market prices. If other lenders or borrowers liquidate significant amounts of real estate in a rapid or disorderly fashion or if the FDIC elects to dispose of significant amounts of real estate from failed financial institutions in a similar fashion, it could have an adverse effect on the values of the properties we own. In such case, we may incur further write-downs and charge-offs, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition The Company may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral; obtaining personal guarantees of loans to businesses; and verification of liquid assets. If the underwriting process fails to capture accurate information or proves to be inadequate, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and those losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. The Company is subjected to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and by the FDIC. As a result and due to restrictions on our activities as a result of the thrift charter, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the OTS and the FDIC have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could result in a range of sanctions and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil money penalties, formal agreements and cease and desist orders. In addition, the OTS and the FDIC have specific authority to take “prompt corrective action,” depending on our capital level. Currently, we are considered “well-capitalized” for prompt corrective action purposes. If we were to drop to the “adequately capitalized” level, the OTS could restrict our ability to take brokered deposits. If we were to fall to the lower capital levels – “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” – we would be required to raise additional capital and also would be subject to progressively more severe restrictions on our operations, management and capital distributions; replacement of senior executive officers and directors; and, if we became “critically undercapitalized,” to the appointment of a conservator or receiver. We expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the current financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business and require us to raise additional capital. In addition to the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) announced in the fall of 2008, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC have taken further steps to support and regulate the financial services industry, that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. Also, the U.S. Congress, through the EESA and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, have imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs. These programs subject us and other financial institutions who participate in them to 31 (1) additional restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs; and (2) compensation restrictions that limit our ability to attract and retain executives, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. The Company faces strong competition from other financial institutions, offering services similar to those offered by us. Many competitors offer the types of loans and deposit services that the Company offers. These competitors include other savings associations, community banks, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company’s competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Increased competition within the Company’s market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete as successfully against current and future competitors. Difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired companies with Washington FederalSavings’ own operations may prevent it from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. Washington Federal Savings has historically expanded its business through mergers with competitors and acquisitions of particular thrift assets. We intend to continue to consider additional growth opportunities, including purchases of failed thrifts and banks or their assets from the FDIC. We may not be able to fully realize the strategic and operating efficiencies in an acquisition. Inherent uncertainties exist in the operations of an acquired entity. Although the Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management, it is possible that Washington Federal may lose customers or key personnel of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. In addition, the market conditions where Washington Federal and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. These factors could contribute to Washington Federal not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all. Failure to successfully implement a new core operating system may adversely affect Washington Federal Savings’ business operations. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies and provide improved security in our operations. In order to meet these needs, Washington Federal Savings’ is in the process of implementing substantial changes to its core operating system. We may not be able to successfully implement the new core operating system in an effective manner or integrate the system with the operations of recently acquired institutions. In addition, we may incur significant increases in costs and encounter extensive delays in the implementation and rollout of our new operating system. Failure to effectively implement our new operating system may adversely affect Washington Federal Savings’ operations as well as customer perceptions. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may cause our earnings to decrease. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 for all accounts through December 31, 2013. We have also enrolled in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. In addition, in May 2009, the Board of Directors of the FDIC approved a further increase in deposit insurance premiums, including a one-time special assessment on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and allows the FDIC to impose additional special assessments on the expanded assessment base for the third and fourth quarters of calendar year 2009. In addition, the substantial number of bank failures as a result of the current financial crisis has led to a rapid depletion of the FDIC’s insurance fund. We anticipate that the premiums assessed by the FDIC to increase meaningfully in the near future. These actions will significantly increase our noninterest expense in our fiscal year 2010 and in future years as long as the increased premiums remain in place. 32 There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to stockholders of our common stock. For instance, exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program would dilute the value of our common shares. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 33 