Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the Company’s common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, a possible national economic recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. Management is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: • Inflation; • Recession; • A rise in unemployment; • Changes in the money supply; and • Domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce or increase the Company’s profits. The Company expects that it will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. The matching of assets and liabilities may be analyzed by examining the extent to which such assets and liabilities are “interest rate sensitive” and by monitoring a bank’s interest rate sensitivity “gap.” An asset or liability is said to be interest rate sensitive within a specific time frame if it will mature or reprice within that period of time. The interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame and the amount of interest-bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within that same period of time. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the cost of its interest-bearing liabilities than it would in the yield on its interest-earning assets, thus producing a decline in its net interest income. Conversely, in a declining rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected to experience a lesser reduction in the yield on its interest-earning assets than it would in the cost of its interest-bearing liabilities, thus producing an increase in its net interest income. At September 30, 2008, the Company had a negative one-year gap of 33.8%, as compared to a negative one-year gap of 33.0% at September 30, 2007. The Company relies, in part, on external financing to fund its operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact its growth and prospects. The Company relies on deposits (primarily certificates of deposit), advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and other borrowings to fund its operations. Management has historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired; however the Company may not be able to replace such funds at any given point in time if its financial condition or market conditions were to change. Although the Company considers such sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, it may seek additional debt in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. Such borrowings, if sought, may not be available to the Company or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s growth and future prospects could be adversely impacted. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory and other limitations which may affect its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. Washington Federal is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, Washington Federal Savings, and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from Washington Federal Savings is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Washington Federal Savings and other factors, that 24 the OTS, Washington Federal Savings’ primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event Washington Federal Savings is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Washington Federal Savings could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, under the U.S Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), the Company needs the Treasury’s consent for any increase in dividends declared on its common stock. This restriction applies until the third anniversary of the issuance of the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock, on November 14, 2008, to the Treasury, unless prior to that time the Company redeems the Series A Preferred Stock or the Treasury transfers it to a third party. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While the Company believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, the Company cannot provide assurances that it will not need to increase its allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require an increase in the allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings and profitability. The Company’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact its operating results and financial condition. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in the Pacific Northwest, could hurt our business. The Company’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond its control. Investments in U.S. government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, declined significantly in value, after the U.S Government placed both companies into conservatorship in September 2008, and may decline further based on economic, legislative or regulatory changes. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for its products and services may decline; • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with its loans; and • Investments in mortgage-backed securities may decline in value as a result of the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral. A downturn in the real estate market could hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in real estate lending. During fiscal 2008, the market for residential housing has experienced dramatic declines, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. In recognition of the continued deterioration in the housing market and an expected increase in non-performing assets, the Company significantly increased its provision for loan losses in fiscal 2008. A downturn in the real estate market could hurt the Company’s business because the vast majority of its loans are secured by real estate. If the significant decline in market values continues, the collateral for the Company’s loans will provide less security. As a result, the Company’s ability to recover the principal amount due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and the Company will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The Company may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral; and verification of liquid assets. Although the Company believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, it may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses. 25 The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could adversely affect its performance. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local government authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative requirements and restrictions. The Company’s business is highly regulated and the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that there will be no laws, rules or regulations adopted in the future which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or prospects. The Company faces strong competition from other financial institutions, offering services similar to those offered by it, which could hurt business. Many competitors offer the types of loans and deposit services that the Company offers. These competitors include other savings associations, community banks, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company’s competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Increased competition within the Company’s market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete as successfully against current and future competitors. Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired companies with Washington Federal’s own operations may prevent it from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. Washington Federal may not be able to fully realize the strategic and operating efficiencies in an acquisition. Inherent uncertainties exist in the operations of an acquired entity. Although the Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management, it is possible that Washington Federal may lose customers or key personnel of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. In addition, the market conditions where Washington Federal and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. These factors could contribute to Washington Federal not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all. Failure to successfully implement a new core operating system may adversely effect Washington Federal’s business operations. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies and provide improved security in our operations. In order to meet these needs, Washington Federal has begun implementing substantial changes to its core operating system. We may not be able to successfully implement the new core operating system or integrate the system with the operations of recently acquired institutions. In addition, we may incur significant increases in costs and encounter extensive delays in the implementation and rollout of our new operating system. Failure to effectively implement our new operating system may adversely affect Washington Federal’s operations as well as customer perceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 26 