Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer's Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Information Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Report") contains certain forward-looking statements such as our intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, strategies, predictions or any other variation thereof or comparable phraseology of our future activities or other future events or conditions within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993, as amended (the "Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created thereby. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties relating to the results of the Company's ongoing Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigation, the actual final costs of our internal investigation and the SEC investigation, the potential impairment of our ability to enter into government contracts as a result of the conduct that was the subject of our internal investigation, the remediation costs relating to the conduct that was the subject of our internal investigation, the potential customer impact of the results of the SEC investigation, the effect of our investigation and financial statement restatement on the trading price of our stock, the integration of our operating companies, the management of our growth, the timing and magnitude of technological advances, the occurrences of future events that could diminish our customers' needs for our services, the change in the degree to which companies continue to outsource business processes, the adverse outcome in any given legal proceeding or claim, the denial of insurance on a particular claim or of a party obligated to provide indemnification being financially able to do so, the conditions to the completion of the prospective merger announced by the Company on March 8, 2006, with entities affiliated with Apollo Management, L.P. (including stockholder approval, the absence of a material adverse change and the satisfaction of the related debt financing) being satisfied or waived, as well as such other risks set forth under the heading Risk Factors included in this report. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Report will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. ITEM 1. Business General SOURCECORP, Incorporated is a provider of business process outsourcing solutions specializing in document and information management and a provider of specialized knowledge-based processing and/or consulting solutions. We offer clients in information-intensive industries—such as financial services, healthcare, legal, government, and transportation—the solutions to manage their information and document intensive business processes and the solutions to fulfill certain specialized knowledge-based processing and consulting requirements, enabling these organizations to concentrate on their core competencies. As a national business process outsourcing provider, we operate approximately 72 facilities in 20 states, Washington, D.C. and Mexico, with approximately 4,800 employees at December 31, 2005. We serve a diverse client base, including customers in the financial services, healthcare insurance, healthcare provider, legal and transportation/logistics industries as well as public sector agencies. Enterprises can outsource many of their information management, distribution and specific information-intensive processes as well as certain specific knowledge-based processing and/or specialized subject matter needs to us due to the breadth of our outsourcing capabilities and subject matter expertise. We believe that the business process outsourcing solutions and consulting markets are growing due to several factors, including: (i) government regulations that require lengthy document retention 3 periods and rapid accessibility for many types of records; (ii) continuing advancements in computer, networking, facsimile, printing and other technologies that have greatly facilitated the production and wide distribution of documents; (iii) the increasing litigiousness of society, necessitating access to relevant documents and records for extended periods of time and requiring specialized subject matter expertise; and (iv) increased customer expectations of low cost access to records on short notice. Our customer profile includes enterprises, both commercial and public-sector, that have information-intensive business processes involving large volumes of documents, forms, case files and storage, with frequent access and distribution requirements or that have other types of information needs that require specialized processing and/or subject matter expertise. We believe that these clients will continue to increase their outsourcing for these needs in order to further focus on their core operating competencies and revenue generating activities; reduce fixed costs, including labor and equipment costs; utilize, on a project basis, highly qualified subject matter experts without incurring the ongoing costs; and gain access to new technologies without incurring the investments and risks of obsolescence associated with the technologies required to effectively meet these needs. Business Strategy Our goal is to become a leading provider in the U.S. of business process outsourcing solutions for information and document intensive vertical markets, including healthcare insurance, financial services, healthcare provider, transportation/logistics, federal and state government, and legal industries and a leading provider of certain knowledge-based processing and consulting services. Achieving our goal will involve extending our involvement in key business processes that we support today with additional processing and consulting capabilities. We have implemented the following focused business strategy, which we believe will attract and retain clients: Economies and Efficiencies. We intend to deliver superior, faster and more cost effective services than our customers can provide for themselves. Scope and Scale. We plan to continue to establish a range of business process outsourcing services to meet the diverse needs of our customers by expanding existing platforms and making selected strategic acquisitions. We intend to continue to handle large volume engagements associated with information-intensive processes. Flexible Service Delivery. We intend to continue to provide outsourced service facilities, on-site facility management and dedicated customer operations through our network of domestic and international workforce and vendor relationships. Information and Technology Lifecycles. We intend to continue to be involved during the stages of the information lifecycle from mailroom operations, data capture, conversion and storage to analysis and output processing. In addition, we intend to further develop processing capabilities and expect to continue to be involved in the technology lifecycles from paper to electronic, making use of web-based and other technologies. Invest in Sales Resources. We intend to expand investments in sales and sales support personnel and resources to expand our pursuit of long-term customer relationships within our key markets. We intend to increase the number of large accounts we can pursue at a given time and, over time increase our win rates through additional client references and successful testimonials. Emphasize Account Penetration. We intend to emphasize account penetration in two primary ways. First, we intend to continue to sell our existing clients additional business process outsourcing solutions. Second, we intend to use our technology advances and industry specific knowledge to sell solutions to new clients. 4 Invest in Technology. We intend to continue our investments in technology in order to expand our business process outsourcing solutions, facilitate the integration of our service platforms, reduce labor costs relative to our growth, and provide our services in more efficient ways. These investments include the acquisition of new-generation high speed scanning equipment, optical character recognition software and systems, communication systems, and other infrastructure related to our service platforms. Internet. We intend to continue to utilize web-based technologies. Our plans include business-to-business e-commerce enabler products to provide critical back office functions. Retain and recruit highly qualified consultative professionals. We intend to continue our recruiting activities for highly qualified consultative professionals in order to expand our professional economic research and litigation support services. Additionally, we intend to maintain a critical mass of consultative professionals in order to handle multiple large, complex assignments simultaneously. Acquisition and Divestiture Strategy We have transitioned to an operating company supported by a strategic acquisition program. Since our inception, we have acquired 73 companies and divested 22 operating units as of December 31, 2005. Of these acquisitions, 85% were completed in the first four years following our initial public offering, in January 1996, as we established a geographic footprint to enable us to provide services nationally. Periodically, we evaluate candidates for acquisition, as well as our operating units for possible divestiture, as a part of our strategic plan. From time to time we also evaluate joint ventures, strategic alternatives and other avenues to help maximize shareholder value. Acquisition candidates are evaluated in conjunction with our operating management team in order to acquire those candidates that meet certain strategic requirements. These criteria include service expansion to broaden service offerings, additional technology, added management strength, industry expertise, expansion of our customer base and geographic need. We believe that we will continue to be a successful acquirer of other business process outsourcing solution and knowledge management companies, nevertheless, there are numerous risks associated with our acquisition program. See "Risk Factors." We evaluate the strategic fit of our operations in order to optimize the use of our capital and management resources. Examples of the criteria used in determining strategic fit include, but are not limited to, cash flow generating capability, revenue and earnings growth opportunity, return on invested capital requirements, market growth potential, and expected ongoing capital requirements. During the first quarter of 2004, we completed a strategic evaluation of our operations based on certain criteria, such as strategic and financial fit, and future growth prospects. As a result, on May 6, 2004, we formally committed to a plan of divestiture for certain non-strategic asset groups related to our Direct Mail operations reported in the Information Management and Distribution segment in prior periods, and two medical records management operations reported in the Healthcare, Regulatory and Legal Compliance segment in prior periods. The asset groups divested during 2004 were sold during the second and third quarters. During the first quarter of 2005, we formally committed to a plan of divestiture for a non-strategic asset group related to our litigation service operations reported in our Healthcare, Regulatory and Legal Compliance segment. The sale of this non-strategic asset group was completed during the first quarter of 2005. Services Offered We provide a variety of business process outsourcing solutions and knowledge-based services and draw upon our available services and expertise to develop solutions for our clients based on their specific needs. We aggregate our components, or service offerings, and operations into two reportable segments: (i) Information Management and Distribution, and (ii) Healthcare, Regulatory, and Legal Compliance. See Note 18, Segment Reporting, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of 5 SOURCECORP, Incorporated and subsidiaries (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") for the last three years' financial results under these segments. Information Management and Distribution. We offer Business Process Outsourcing ("BPO") solutions that help our customers manage the Document In-flow, Workflow Processing and Statement Out-flow of their mission critical business document processes. Our BPO solutions enable customers to automate their complex workflow processes by digitizing extremely large volumes of documents, capturing information from the documents, hosting electronic documents on our Web-based repository, and preparing statements that customers mail or present electronically to their end users. We offer our BPO solutions to businesses in document intensive industries, such as healthcare insurance, financial services, healthcare provider, transportation/logistics, and federal and state government. Information Management and Distribution represented 53% of revenue during 2005. Document In-flow: Our BPO solutions start with our ability to receive and process customer documents at more than twenty sites located throughout the United States and multiple offshore venues. Our services include outsourced mailroom management, high-speed electronic scanning, automated data capture using optical character recognition (OCR) software, and domestic and offshore data entry. Each day, we process millions of document pages in our highly efficient processing facilities. Workflow Processing: Once the documents are digitized and key information is captured in a database, we can host customers' electronic documents and enterprise workflow applications on FASTRIEVE, our Web-based document repository and workflow platform. FASTRIEVE allows customers to quickly implement enterprise workflow applications without the capital investment and ongoing maintenance costs required by an in-house system. Each day, thousands of users at more than thirty companies access FASTRIEVE's secure data center to integrate their electronic documents with workflow applications specific to their industries. FASTRIEVE's online document repository enables workflow processes involving mortgage loan documents, healthcare claims, patient records, personnel files, tax files and other mission critical business document processes. The FASTRIEVE repository currently stores over four billion images. Statement Out-flow: We also process customer data to create, print, and mail statements to our customers' end users. We operate three large statement processing and out-bound mail facilities in the Eastern, Midwest, and Western United States. Our national "footprint" allows us to efficiently deliver statements to any mail zone in the United States. We also provide our customers with the ability to present electronic statements to their end users through our Web-based statement repository or by email. Each day, we create, print, and mail thousands of statements including brokerage statements, bank statements, and customer invoices. Healthcare, Regulatory, and Legal Compliance. We offer specialized knowledge-based processing and consulting services that include medical records release services, record management services for healthcare institutions, temporary staffing for healthcare institutions, providing managed care payment compliance reviews, class action claims administration services, and professional economic research and litigation services. Healthcare, Regulatory, and Legal Compliance represented 47% of revenue during 2005. Medical records release services consists of processing a request for a patient's medical records from a physician, insurance company, attorney, healthcare institution, or individual. The medical records release service provider initially verifies that the release is properly authorized, coordinates the retrieval of the record, determines the relevant parts of the record to be copied and delivers the copied records (or portions thereof) to the requesting party. Medical records release services are provided on-site and off-site pursuant to contracts with hospitals, other large healthcare institutions and insurance companies. The medical records release service provider bills the recipient directly and sometimes pays a fee to the hospital. 6 Record management services consist primarily of active or open shelf storage. Active or open shelf storage services involve the storage, processing (i.e., indexing and formatting), retrieval, delivery and return to storage of documents in a rapid time frame. Many of these services are provided electronically through web-enabled applications. Service fees generally include a monthly fee based on activity levels and volumes stored, with additional billing for specialized requests. To a smaller extent, we store inactive documents. Additional Healthcare and Compliance services include document and data conversion, archiving and imaging services for hospital radiology departments, imaging and electronic storage of medical records for hospitals, coding and abstracting of medical records, managed care payment compliance reviews, and temporary staffing services for hospital information management departments. Class Action Claims Administration Services include turnkey services to administer legal settlements. Services include compiling and managing claims databases, conducting mail campaigns for settlement communications and providing communication support for settlements through our in-bound call centers. We identify and notify members of class action lawsuits or other groups, answer questions, track and record contact with class action or other group members, process claims, and distribute settlement funds. Professional Economic Research and Litigation Services include the utilization of highly skilled and experienced professionals and the application of key intellectual property and experience based proprietary data to provide help in solving client problems. We are engaged in complex, high profile and high economic risk litigation matters to offer expert analysis and testimony. Our high level consulting services range from fair lending, labor discrimination and forensic analysis to trial support for law firms and corporations. Tax Benefit Services provide consulting and process management services around niche tax areas to a variety of industries. Working through a network of C.P.A. firms, we provide niche tax services related to LIFO inventory accounting for auto dealerships and assist commercial property owners in optimizing their deductions for depreciation. Sales and Marketing We have a broad customer base with no customer accounting for more than 9% of revenue. However, one of our industry customers accounted for approximately 8% of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2005. The loss of any one of our significant clients could leave us with a significantly higher level of fixed costs than is necessary to serve our remaining clients, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales efforts are accomplished on a national basis through regionally based sales teams with vertical market focus. We continue to focus on increasing revenue from our current customer base through major account management focused on increasing service levels, selling additional services to existing and new departments, and piloting new service offering content. Competition The business process outsourcing solution and consulting markets in which we compete and expect to compete are highly competitive. A significant source of competition is the in-house capability of our target client base. There can be no assurance that these businesses will outsource more of their business processing or consulting needs or that they will not bring in-house the services that they currently outsource. In addition, certain of our competitors are larger businesses and have greater financial resources than we do. Certain of these competitors operate in broader geographic areas or offer a broader set of capabilities than we do, and others may choose to enter our areas of operation in the future. We intend to continue to enter new geographic areas through internal growth and potentially through acquisitions and expect to encounter significant competition from established 7 competitors in each of such areas. As a result of this highly competitive environment, we may lose clients or have difficulty in acquiring new customers and new companies and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We believe that the principal competitive factors in providing business process outsourcing or consulting services include quality, reliability and security of service, industry specific knowledge, and price. We compete primarily on the basis of quality of service and client segment specific knowledge as well as our ability to handle large volumes and projects, and believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors. We continue to integrate best practice delivery processes into all of our service-delivery capabilities to improve our quality and service levels and to increase operational efficiencies. We have also integrated the use of offshore resources and personnel in order to increase pricing competitiveness. Employees At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 4,200 full-time and approximately 600 part-time employees. Our employee count fluctuates from time to time based upon the timing and duration of certain project revenue engagements. We also utilize contract labor in certain functions of our business. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 136 employees represented by labor unions. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website (www.sourcecorp.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information concerning each of our executive officers as of March 24, 2006: NAME AGE POSITION Thomas C. Walker 73 Chairman of the Board and Chief Development Officer Ed H. Bowman, Jr. 59 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Barry L. Edwards 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Charles S. Gilbert 39 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Kerry Walbridge 54 Senior Vice President and President—Business Process Solutions Division Ronald Zazworsky 62 Senior Vice President and President—HealthSERVE Division Dave Delgado 45 Senior Vice President and President—Legal Claims and Regulatory Compliance Division Steve Davis 38 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Ralph D. Burns 51 Vice President of Corporate Development 8 Thomas C. Walker has been our Chairman of the Board since our inception in September 1994 and has been our Chief Development Officer since November 1995. From September 1994 until November 1995, Mr. Walker held the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer. From August 1991 to December 1994, Mr. Walker was Vice President, Corporate Development, of Laidlaw Waste Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of Laidlaw, Inc., a waste management company, where he was responsible for its acquisition and divestiture program in the United States and Mexico. Mr. Walker has been responsible for the acquisition or divestiture of several hundred businesses over a 30-year period. Mr. Walker currently serves as a director of Renew Data, a privately held provider of electronic evidence services and preservation archiving. Mr. Walker holds a B.S. degree in Industrial Engineering from Lafayette College. Ed H. Bowman, Jr. has been our President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director since November 1995. From 1993 to 1995, Mr. Bowman was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Health Systems Group for First Data Corporation, a financial services company. Mr. Bowman was responsible for the day-to-day operations of research and development, marketing and customer service. From 1983 to 1993, Mr. Bowman served in a number of executive positions with a leading healthcare information systems company; responsibilities included VP—International, VP—Marketing, Senior VP—Customer Services, Group Senior VP—Research and Development, and last serving as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer with responsibility for domestic operations. Prior to 1983, Mr. Bowman was with Andersen Consulting (currently known as Accenture), where he was elected a Partner. Mr. Bowman holds an M.S. degree from Georgia Institute of Technology and a B.B.A. from Georgia State University. Mr. Bowman has served on the Board of the Advanced Technology Development Center at Georgia Tech. Mr. Bowman currently serves on the Advisory Board to the President of Georgia Tech and on the Advisory Board of the Robinson School of Business at Georgia State University. Barry L. Edwards has been an Executive Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer since August 2000. From November 1994 to March 2000, Mr. Edwards was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for AMRESCO, a nationwide financial services company. He was responsible for the company's financial reporting, treasury and risk management, corporate accounting, information technology, internal audit functions, human resources, and investor relations. From December 1978 to November 1994, Mr. Edwards was Vice President and Treasurer of Liberty Corporation, an insurance and broadcasting holding company, where he was responsible for all aspects of finance, including SEC reporting, financing, tax, and internal audit functions. Mr. Edwards received a B.S. degree in Finance and Economics from Lehigh University in 1969 and an M.B.A. degree from the University of Virginia Darden School Of Business in 1972. Mr. Edwards is a board member of Ryan's Restaurant Group Inc. and Robert Harris Homes. Charles S. Gilbert has been a Senior Vice President, Secretary, and General Counsel since January 2001, a Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since August 2000, our Secretary and acting General Counsel since July 2000 and corporate counsel since April 2000. From 1991 until joining us he practiced law in the corporate securities section of Jackson Walker LLP, Dallas, where he was elected partner. Mr. Gilbert holds a B.S. degree in Physics from The University of Texas and a J.D. from The University of Texas School of Law. Kerry Walbridge, age 53, has been a Division President since March 2001. From April 2000 to December 2000, Mr. Walbridge was President and CEO of eMake Corporation, a first-to-market provider of web hosted Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software solutions and electronic supply chain services to the manufacturing market. From August 1998 to April 2000, Mr. Walbridge was Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing for Outsourcing Solutions, Inc., the nation's largest provider of accounts receivable management services. From November 1991 to June 1993 and from June 1996 to August 1998, Mr. Walbridge was a Division Vice President for Electronic Data Systems (EDS) and 9 from April 1998 to November 1991 Mr. Walbridge was a Division Vice President for McDonnell Douglas Systems Integration. Mr. Walbridge received a B.S. in business from St. Louis University. Ronald Zazworsky has been a Division President since November 2000. From October 1997 until November 2000, Mr. Zazworsky was our Senior Vice President—HealthSERVE. From February 1994 until July 1997, Mr. Zazworsky was Senior Vice President at Medaphis Corporation, an outsourcer of financial and business management services for hospitals and physician groups. From April 1992 to February 1994, Mr. Zazworsky was President and CEO at Habersham Banking Solutions, Inc., a private check imaging software firm, where he also served on its board of directors. Prior to 1992, Mr. Zazworsky was employed at HBOC, a healthcare systems and services organization, as Regional Vice President for eight years. Previously, Mr. Zazworsky held various sales, marketing, and management positions at IBM. Mr. Zazworsky holds a B.A. degree from Gettysburg College and a M.B.A. degree from Emory University. Dave Delgado has been a Division President since January 2004. Mr. Delgado joined the Company in September 1996 as a result of SOURCECORP acquiring Zia Information Analysis Group. From July 1999 to January 2004, Mr. Delgado was responsible for the legal consulting business segment at SOURCECORP. Prior to joining SOURCECORP, Mr. Delgado founded and served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Zia Information Analysis Group specializing in expert witness testimony and case management services. Prior to founding Zia Information Analysis Group, Mr. Delgado was a Partner with Peterson Consulting, a national consulting firm specializing in economic damage and expert witness testimony. Mr. Delgado has provided expert witness testimony in both California State Court and Federal Court. Mr. Delgado graduated from Stanford University where he majored in civil engineering and minored in economics. Steve Davis has been Chief Information Officer since January 2004. From April 2002 to January 2004, Mr. Davis was Chief Technology Officer for SOURCECORP's Business Process Solutions Division. From December 1999 until joining SOURCECORP, Mr. Davis was Executive Vice President at Michael's Stores where Mr. Davis led advanced technology initiatives, including the launch of Michaels' first electronic commerce business and call center operations, as well as supply chain enablement programs. Mr. Davis also held various technology management positions at IBM and led the e-Business Solutions Group for IBM's Western Geography, providing leadership for large-scale professional services and systems integration projects. Mr. Davis has a successful 16 year track record in technology management focused on customer-oriented, high-impact technology solutions. Mr. Davis is an honors graduate of Texas A&M University where he majored in Information Management Systems. Ralph D. Burns has been Vice President of Corporate Development for SOURCECORP since May of 2003. From 1999 until May 2003, Mr. Burns held several senior management roles at EDS including Vice President of Marketing and Portfolio Management globally for E solutions, the solutions consulting division of EDS, responsible for global business strategy, M&A, Alliances, Marketing, Communications, Portfolio Management, and Market Analyst Relations. In 1998 and 1999, Mr. Burns was Director for Cap Gemini America responsible for the Financial and E-Commerce practices in the southwest. From 1979 until 1998, Mr. Burns held various positions at MTech (acquired by EDS in 1988) including VP Corporate Operations and VP Emerging Business Development where he was responsible for developing new businesses areas. From 1973 until 1979, Mr. Burns held various management positions at Republic National Bank in Dallas. 10 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR CASH FLOWS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED, THE PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES COULD DECLINE, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPAY OUR DEBT SECURITIES, IF ANY, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT AND INCORPORATED IN THIS REPORT BY REFERENCE, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING US. ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT CURRENTLY KNOWN TO US, THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL OR ARE OTHERWISE NOT LISTED BELOW MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Potential merger consummation On March 8, 2006, the Company announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 7, 2006 (the "Merger Agreement"), among the Company, CorpSource Holdings, LLC ("Purchaser") and CorpSource MergerSub, Inc. ("Merger Sub"). Purchaser and Merger Sub are entities affiliated with Apollo Management, L.P. ("Apollo"). The Merger Agreement contemplates that Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company (the "Merger") and each outstanding share of common stock of the Company will be converted into the right to receive $25.00 per share in cash, without interest. The consummation of the Merger is subject to various customary conditions, including adoption of the Merger Agreement by the Company's stockholders, expiration of the antitrust waiting period, the absence of a material adverse change in the Company's business and the receipt of committed debt financing by Purchaser. No assurance can be given that such conditions will be satisfied or waived. The Merger Agreement contains representations and warranties by the Company, Purchaser and Merger Sub. The representations and warranties reflect negotiations between the parties to the Merger Agreement and, in certain cases, merely represent allocation decisions among the parties and may not be statements of fact. As such, the representations and warranties are solely for the benefit of the parties to the Merger Agreement and may be limited or modified by a variety of factors, including: subsequent events, information included in public filings, disclosures made during negotiations, correspondence between the parties and disclosure schedules to the Merger Agreement. Accordingly, the representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs at the date they were made or at any other time and you should not rely on them as statements of fact. SEC investigation On January 14, 2005, the Company received written confirmation from the SEC that the SEC had converted its informal inquiry in connection with the Company's internal investigation and restatement into a formal investigation. The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC in connection with the investigation. The Company initially had contacted the enforcement division of the SEC on a voluntary basis to notify the agency of the Company's understanding of the events leading to its internal investigation. We are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, the scope of matters that the SEC may choose to investigate in the course of this investigation or in the future, the SEC's views of the issues being investigated, or any action that the SEC might take, including the imposition of fines, penalties, or other available remedies 11 Pending litigation We are party to significant litigation, which is described in more detail in "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." If any of these proceedings is decided against us, we could be subject to substantial damages or other penalties. Customer arrangements following internal investigation Some of the issues identified in our internal investigation may impact the degree to which some customers are willing to continue to do business with us. Further, as some of the issues identified in our internal investigation involved contracts with State and Federal agencies, we may be subject to penalties or charges that potentially could include a suspension or other impairment of our (or the Operating Subsidiary that was the subject of our internal investigation's) ability to enter into future arrangements with such governmental bodies. However, we cannot predict with certainty the amount of such potential remediation costs or whether such remediation offers will be accepted. Contract profitability factors The pricing and other terms of our client contracts require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. These estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services. Further, some of our client contracts require significant investments in the early stages, which investments are intended to be recovered through billings over the life of the contract. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, or decrease in the actual work volumes generated under the contracts, including as a result of events caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. Competition The business process outsourcing services industry is highly competitive. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. A significant source of competition is the in-house capability of our targeted client base. We cannot assure you that these businesses will outsource more of their document and information management needs or that such businesses will not bring in-house the services that they currently outsource. In addition, certain of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, operate in broader geographic areas than we do, have a greater international presence than we do, and/or offer a broader range of services in certain segments. In such an increasingly competitive environment, we may lose clients or have difficulty in acquiring new clients and new companies. Revenue mix impact on financial performance Project revenue includes one-time projects in which the customer relationship is not expected to continue after project completion. Conversely, recurring revenue is characterized by customer relationships that are generally for one year and may continue for longer. Recurring revenue is typically based on transaction volumes sent to us by our customers and these volumes are typically not contractual or otherwise guaranteed. Project revenue margins are usually higher than our average margins and the workload can be highly volatile. Recurring revenue typically has lower margins than project revenue but is usually more predictable. To the extent our business mix shifts from project-oriented to recurring service offerings, our gross margins, operating income, and operating cash flow may decline. 12 Contract termination provisions Some of our government and other clients can terminate their contracts for any reason, provided the notification procedures stated in the contract are followed, regardless of our performance. In addition, public sector contracts are subject to public policy and funding priorities. Some of our contracts with clients provide for termination, fee credits or financial penalties in the event our performance is not consistent with the service levels specified in those contracts. Impact of changes in business practices and technology We derive our revenue primarily from document and information intensive industries. Fundamental changes in the business practices of any of these client industries whether due to regulators, technology, the internet or other developments, could cause a material reduction in demand by our clients for the services offered by us. Any reduction in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The business process outsourcing service industry is characterized by technological change, evolving client needs, and emerging technical standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new technologies, that we will be able to effectively implement new technologies on a cost-effective or timely basis or that such technologies will not render obsolete our role as a third party provider of business process outsourcing services. Client concentration/investments in clients Our success depends substantially upon retaining our significant clients. One of our customers represents 9% of our revenue and 8% of our gross profit for the period ended December 31, 2005. Generally, we may lose clients due to a merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration, conversion to a competitor, or conversion to an in-house system. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our significant clients in the future. We incur a high level of fixed costs related to certain of our business process outsourcing clients. These fixed costs result from significant investments, including computer hardware platforms, computer software, facilities, and client service infrastructure. The loss of any one of our significant clients could leave us with a significantly higher level of fixed costs than is necessary to serve our remaining clients. Key personnel Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating companies. If any of these people are unable or unwilling to continue in their present role, or if we are unable to attract and retain additional managers and skilled employees, our business could be adversely affected. We do not currently have key person life insurance covering any of our executive officers. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel. If we fail to attract, train, and retain sufficient numbers of these technically-skilled people, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, parts of our business are individual or relationship driven. In particular, our economic research and litigation services business is highly dependant on our staff of professionals who have expertise, reputations and client relationships critical to maintaining and developing our business. Technology risks The markets for our business process outsourcing services are subject to rapid technological changes and rapid changes in client requirements. To compete, we commit substantial resources to operating multiple hardware platforms, to customizing third-party software programs, and to training client personnel and our personnel in the use of new technologies. Future hardware, software, and 13 other products may be able to manipulate large amounts of documents and information more cost effectively than existing products that we use. Information processing is shifting toward client-server and web-based systems, in which individual computers or groups of personal computers and mid-range systems replace older systems. This trend could adversely affect our business and financial results and result in us losing clients and being unable to attract new clients. We have committed substantial resources to developing outsourcing solutions for these distributed computing environments. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in customizing products and services that incorporate new technology on a timely basis. We also cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to deliver the services and products demanded by the marketplace. Business interruptions Certain of our operations are performed at a single location and are dependent on continuous computer, electrical, and telephone service. As a result, any disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect upon us. We cannot assure you that a fire, flood, earthquake, terrorist activities, power loss, telephone service loss, problems caused by computer or technology issues, or other events affecting one or more of our facilities would not disable these services. Any significant damage to any facility or other failure that causes significant interruptions in our operations may not be covered by insurance. During 2005, we incurred losses associated with property damage and business interruption related to Hurricane Katrina. Acquisitions require financing We currently intend to finance any future acquisitions by using cash and in some cases our common stock for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid. In the event that our common stock is not at a sufficient value at the time of an acquisition, or potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common stock as consideration for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to use more cash, if available, in order to consummate acquisitions. If we do not have sufficient cash, our growth through acquisitions could be limited unless we are able to obtain capital through additional debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you, however, that funds available under our line of credit will be sufficient for our needs. Financial covenants Under our line of credit agreement, we are subject to certain reporting requirements and financial covenants, including requirements to maintain minimum levels of net worth, a maximum ratio of funded debt to EBITDA and other financial leverage ratios. An erosion of our business could place the Company out of compliance with these covenants. Potential remedies for the lenders include declaring all outstanding amounts immediately payable, terminating commitments and enforcing any liens; however, in the event of any future noncompliance the Company may seek a waiver from such lenders. See Note 11, Long-term Obligations and Credit Facilities, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill impairments Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but rather are evaluated at least annually for impairment. The valuation of goodwill for impairment involves a high degree of judgment. Based on our estimates and assumptions underlying the valuation, impairment is determined by estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing that value to the reporting unit's book value. If economic events occur that cause us to revise our estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of our goodwill, such revisions could result in an impairment charge that could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements during the period incurred. 14 In connection with the preparation and review of the Company's financial statements for its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, we performed as of October 31, 2005, the annual goodwill impairment test as required by SFAS No. 142. The annual test indicated the carrying value of our HealthSERVE reporting unit within the Healthcare, Regulatory and Legal Compliance reportable segment exceeded its fair value. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of approximately $38.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2005, which is slightly greater than the amount estimated at the time the Company filed its notification of late filing on Form 12b-25 for the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Divestitures Periodically, we evaluate the strategic fit of our operations in order to optimize the use of our capital and management resources. Examples of the criteria used in determining strategic fit include, but are not limited to, cash flow generating capability, revenue and earnings growth opportunity, return on invested capital requirements, market growth potential, and expected ongoing capital requirements. Service offerings determined to be non-strategic could be sold or otherwise divested. Any such divestiture activity could result in a significant loss on disposal dependent upon many factors, such as: the expected financial performance of the service offering, the growth potential of the service offering, and the current economic conditions at the time of divestiture. Intellectual property infringement claims We do not own the majority of the software that we use to run our business; instead we license this software from a number of vendors. If these vendors assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their software or related intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any vendors' infringement claims are ultimately successful, our vendors could require us: (i) to cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology; (ii) to obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors; or (iii) to redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged software or technology. Breach of confidentiality A substantial portion of our business involves the handling of documents containing privacy controlled, confidential and other sensitive information. Although we have established procedures intended to prevent any unauthorized disclosure of confidential information and, in some cases, have contractually limited our potential liability for unauthorized disclosure of such information, we cannot assure you that unauthorized disclosures will not result in a material liability to us. Further, any such unauthorized disclosure may damage the Company's reputation and result in a material loss of customers. Government regulations In our medical records release of information business, there is state legislation from time to time designed to limit the price that can be charged for copying and distributing medical records information. Depending on the severity of such pricing legislation, there can be significant pressure on the profit margins associated with providing medical records release services. Today, some form of pricing legislation exists in many states in the United States. Further, such pricing legislation from time to time results in putative class action lawsuits alleging that the charge for reproducing certain medical records is not in conformity with such plaintiffs' reading of the applicable regulated charge. We are from time to time a party to such putative class action lawsuits. The defense of these putative class action law suits can exert further pressure on related profit margins. 15 HIPAA regulations As a result of statutory authority granted pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), the United States Department of Health and Human Services has recently issued regulations regarding the use and disclosure of personal health information by healthcare providers, health plans, and certain other "covered entities" operating in the healthcare industry. The HIPAA regulations require covered entities to take steps to maintain the privacy and security of personal health information. While we are not a "covered entity" directly governed by these regulations (though in some cases the Company's group health plans may be "covered entities"), many of our customers are covered entities under the HIPAA regulations, and these customers are required to adjust their business arrangements to comply with HIPAA. These customers will be required to enter into "business associate arrangements" with us that conform to the requirements of HIPAA. The requirements of HIPAA, and the costs of complying with HIPAA, may adversely affect the business operations of these customers, which could have a negative impact on our business operations. Furthermore, the requirements of the "business associate arrangements," and the changes we will have to make in our operations to comply with such agreements, will increase our costs of operations. To the extent we are unable to comply with the provisions of such agreements, we could lose the business generated by those clients or could be subject to damages for violation of its "business associate agreements" with those clients. Our Board of Directors may be able to delay or prevent takeovers On June 24, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved certain amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws. The amendments among other things modified who can call a special meeting of stockholders or adjourn a stockholders meeting, established certain advance notice and other procedural requirements with respect to stockholder action by written consent and stockholder actions at any stockholder meeting, and revised the provisions regarding the establishment of record dates to correspond to the requirements of Delaware law. Such amendments might have a consequence of delaying or discouraging a proxy contest. Our Board of Directors is empowered to issue preferred stock without stockholder action and on June 24, 2005, the Company adopted a stockholders' rights plan (the "Rights Plan"), which could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. See Note 14, Stockholders' Equity, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information relating to the Rights Plan. Immediately prior to the execution of the Merger Agreement with the Apollo affiliates, the Company and the related rights agent entered into an amendment to the Rights Plan that provided that neither the execution of the Merger Agreement nor the consummation of the related Merger would trigger the provisions of the Rights Plan. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 