Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we do not consider to be material at this time. If the events described in these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. This section discusses the risk factors that might cause those differences. Geopolitical instability where we operate subjects us to political, economic and other uncertainties. We conduct business in Guinea, which is in a region of the world where there have been recent civil wars, revolutions, coup d’états and internecine conflicts. In July 2010, a democratic election was held that identified two main candidates for a run-off election that is expected to be held on October 10, 2010. External or internal political forces in Guinea could potentially create a political or military climate that might cause a change in political leadership, the outbreak of hostilities, or civil unrest. Such uncertainties could result in our having to cease our Guinea operations and result in the loss or delay of our rights under the PSC, as amended. 7 Further, we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to our operations, which may include, among other things: · loss of property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, war, acts of terrorism, insurrection and other political risks; · increases in taxes and governmental royalties; · unilateral renegotiation of contracts by governmental entities; · difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; · changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; and · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Our operations in Guinea may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation. Realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. We have a history of losses and negative cash flow that we expect to continue in the near term. We will require substantial additional funding in the near term which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all; if we cannot obtain additional financing, we may have to curtail operations and may ultimately cease to exist. Our financial statements reflect recurring, ongoing and substantial yearly net losses, and negative cash flows from operations. We need additional funding or alternative sources of capital to meet our working capital needs. We have previously raised capital by selling common stock and warrants, issuing convertible debentures and using a previously available equity line of credit which expired in February 2009. Our management does not believe that existing cash resources will be sufficient to enable us to execute our business plan over the next twelve months and that we will need to raise substantial additional capital or obtain funding through a strategic relationship in the near term in order to do so. However, future financing or strategic alliances may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we will not be able to execute our business plan, and we may be forced to curtail operations and may ultimately cease to exist. We may not be able to meet our substantial capital requirements to conduct our operations and achieve our business plan. Our business is capital intensive. We must invest a significant amount in development and exploration activities. We are currently making and intend to continue to make substantial capital expenditures to find, develop and produce natural gas and oil reserves. We currently have no operating revenue. If we do not obtain capital resources, we may not be able to meet the obligations under the PSC, as amended – thus surrendering the Contract Area. The Contract Area is our single most important asset and its loss would result in a substantial decrease in our ability to eventually become a revenue-generating company. Even if we acquire sufficient financing to meet the obligations under the PSC, as amended, we may not be able to raise or expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs or acquisition opportunities unless we raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, which may not be available on acceptable terms to us or at all. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing or enter into and complete one or more strategic relationships with an industry partner to meet our capital requirements on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, our future cash flow from operations may not be sufficient for continued exploration, development or acquisition activities, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. With the completion of the sale of our domestic oil and gas properties in August 2009, we are strictly in the exploration phase, and we have no petroleum reserves. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses over the next several years with our operations, including further 3D seismic studies and exploratory drilling. Based on the exploration results to date, we anticipate that the cost per commercial well, if further results justify attempts at commercial drilling, would range from US$30 million each (shallow water prospects) to approximately US$100 million each (deepwater prospects). The PSC, as amended is subject to renegotiation under certain conditions, which may have an adverse impact upon our operations and profitability. The PSC Amendment provides that should the government of Guinea note material differences between provisions of the PSC Amendment and international standards or the Guinea Petroleum Code, the parties will renegotiate the relevant articles. If the government of Guinea identifies materials differences between the PSC Amendment’s provisions and international standards or the Guinea Petroleum Code, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate an acceptable modification to the PSC Amendment. If the parties are not successful in renegotiating the relevant articles of the PSC Amendment, the parties may be required to submit the matter to international arbitration. There is no assurance that any arbitration would be successful or otherwise lead to articles that are more favorable to us than the present articles. Therefore, the results of such negotiations or arbitration could be unfavorable to us and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. 8 Our Concession or obligations under the PSC, as amended, could be adversely affected by Guinea’s political uncertainties. Guinea has faced and continues to face political, economic and social uncertainties which are beyond our control. Maintaining a good working relationship with the Guinean government is important because the Concession is granted under the terms of the PSC, as amended, with the Guinean government. A presidential election was conducted in Guinea in July 2010 and a run-off election is scheduled for October 10, 2010. While we intend to maintain a positive working relationship with the Guinean government, we cannot predict whether the run-off election will occur as scheduled, or the impact that the run-off election will have on our relationship. A change in leadership could result in political instability or substantial changes in government policies which could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. We operate in Guinea, a country where corrupt behavior exists that could impair our ability to do business in the future or result in significant fines or penalties. We operate in Guinea, a country where governmental corruption has been known to exist. There is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In addition, the future success of our Guinea operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, risk of war, expropriation, terrorism, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, tax laws and changes in exchange rates. Our past losses raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010 have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses since inception, resulting in cumulative losses of $75,624,000 through June 30, 2010. We have historically been able to raise capital from debt, equity or industry sources to finance our activities, but there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future, or that any capital raises will be on terms favorable to us. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, as discussed in Note # 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concernis dependent on our ability to raise capital. Our growth is dependent on our raising capital through the sale of equity or debt or our ability to attract a joint operating or financial participant for the Concession. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise any equity or debt financing or that we will be able to attract a joint operating or financial participant to invest in our Guinea Concession. We expect that entering into these relationships would entail transferring a portion of our interest in the Concession to such partner. Future events may make it difficult for us to raise capital. To raise capital, we may sell equity or debt securities or obtain financing through a bank or other entity. There is no limit as to the amount of debt we may incur. Such financing may not be available to us or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, there may be a significant dilution in the value of our currently outstanding common stock. We do not have reserve reports for the Concession and our expectations as to oil and gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from any actual production. We do not have any reserve reports for the Concession. A reserve report is the estimated quantities of oil and gas based on reports prepared by third party reserve engineers. Reserve reporting is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Because we do not have any reserve reports for the Concession, our expectations as to oil and gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from any actual production. We have no ability to control the prices that we may receive for oil and gas. Oil and gas prices are volatile and a substantial or extended decline in prices could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and future operating results. We have no source of revenue at this time. Our financial condition is based solely on our ability to sell equity or debt securities to investors or enter into a joint operating or similar strategic relationship with an industry participant, sell interests related to the Concession or borrow funds. We expect that entering into these joint operating or similar relationships would entail transferring a portion of our interest in the Concession to such partner. Such investors would consider the price of oil in making an investment decision. Declines in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Low oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Low oil and gas prices in the future could have a negative effect on our future financial results. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: 9 · the level of domestic and foreign supplies of oil; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · political conditions in oil producing regions throughout the world; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil production; · price and production controls; · the price of foreign oil imports; · actions of governments; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; · overall economic conditions; and · value of the U.S. dollar. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict oil and gas prices. Our inability to respond appropriately to changes in these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. Investment in the oil and gas business is risky, and there is no assurance we will be successful in discovering oil and gas. Oil and gas exploration and development are inherently speculative activities. There is no certain method to determine whether a given lease or concession will produce oil or gas or yield oil or gas in sufficient quantities and quality to result in commercial production. The development of a lease or concession may result in dry holes or in the discovery of oil or gas that is not commercially feasible to produce. There is no guarantee that we may find oil or gas in commercial quantities. There is no guarantee that a producing asset will continue to produce. Because of the high degree of risk involved, there can be no assurance that we will recover any portion of our investment or that our investment in leases will be profitable. Drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including the significant risk that we do not reach our target reservoir or that no commercially productive reserve is encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells and of installing production facilities and pipelines is often uncertain. Drilling costs could be significantly higher if we encounter difficulty in drilling offshore. There are drilling and operational hazards associated with the oil and gas industry which could result in substantial losses. The oil and gas industry involves a variety of operating risks, including: · blowouts, cratering and explosions; · mechanical and equipment problems; · uncontrolled flows of oil and gas or well fluids; · fires; · marine hazards with respect to offshore operations; · formations with abnormal pressures; · pollution and other environmental risks; and 10 · natural disasters. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as capsizing and collisions. Also, offshore operations are subject to damage or loss from adverse weather conditions. Any of these events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses. Locating pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. We are subject to governmental regulations of which the cost of compliance may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and future cash flow. Oil and gas operations in Guinea may be subject to extensive government regulation and to interruption or termination by governmental authorities on account of ecological and other considerations. It is impossible to predict future government proposals that might be enacted into law and the effect they might have on us. Restrictions on oil and gas activities, such as production restrictions, price controls, tax increases and pollution and environmental controls may have material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and future cash flows. The oil and gas industry is subject to hazards related to pollution and environmental issues which may create substantial liabilities to third parties. Hazards in the drilling and/or the operation of gas and oil properties, such as accidental leakage or spillage, are sometimes encountered. Such hazards may cause substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, the payment of which could adversely affect our liquidity or result in the loss of our leases. We may be subject to liability for pollution and other damages due to environmental events. Environmental regulatory matters also could increase substantially the cost of doing business, may cause delays in producing oil and gas or require the modification of operations in certain areas. Our operations may be subject to numerous stringent and complex laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the imposition of injunctions to force future compliance. Government regulations may require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. In addition, there may be statutes, rules and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells and the spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Such statutes and regulations may limit the rate at which oil and gas could otherwise be produced from our properties and may restrict the number of wells that may be drilled on a particular lease or in a particular field. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely impact us. Drilling activity offshore Guinea will require that we have access to an offshore drilling rig. Unavailability, shortages or increases in the cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our Guinea operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary equipment or that services will be available at economical prices. Expansion of our exploration program will require capital from outside sources. We do not currently have the financial resources to drill offshore Guinea. Absent raising additional capital or completing further assignments of a participating interest in our Concession or entering into a joint operating or similar arrangement, we will not be able to conduct drilling operations offshore Guinea. There is no assurance that capital will be available in the future to us or that capital will be available under terms acceptable to us. We will need to raise additional money, either through the sale of equity securities (which could dilute the existing stockholders' interest), through the entering of joint operating or similar agreements (which, while limiting our risk, could reduce our ownership interest in the Concession), or from borrowings from third parties (which could result in our assets being pledged as collateral and which would add debt service requirements). Additional capital could be obtained from a combination of funding sources, many of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These potential funding sources and the potential adverse effects attributable thereto, include: · additional offerings of equity securities, which will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders; · sales or assignments of interests in the Concession and exploration program, which would reduce any future revenues from that program; 11 · borrowings from financial institutions, which may subject us to certain restrictive covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to raise additional capital or pay dividends; · debt offerings, which would increase our leverage and add to our need for cash to service such debt (which could result in additional assets being pledged as collateral and which could increase our debt service requirements); and · sales of interests in other projects, which could reduce any future revenues. It is difficult to quantify the amount of financing we may need to fund our business plan. The amount of funding we may need in the future depends on various factors such as: · our financial position; · the prevailing market price of natural gas and oil; · the lead time required to bring any discoveries to production; and · the cost of additional exploration and drilling. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time such additional capital is sought. Capital may not become available to us from any particular source or at all. Even if additional capital becomes available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. Failure to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. Pending and future claims and litigation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently involved in various lawsuits, including claims involving breaches of fiduciary duties and environmental cleanup costs as described in Item 3 of this Annual Report on this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify, and we cannot predict how it will impact us; however the costs related to litigation could subject us to substantial legal expenses. Drilling new wells could result in new liabilities, which could endanger our interests in our properties and assets. There are risks associated with the drilling of oil and natural gas wells which could significantly reduce our revenues or cause substantial losses, impairing our future operating results. We may become subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs or other hazards. We intend to obtain insurance with respect to these hazards, but such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. The payment of such liabilities could reduce the funds available to us or could, in an extreme case, result in a total loss of our properties and assets. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that are considered reasonable. Oil and natural gas production operations are also subject to all the risks typically associated with such operations, including premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations. We have competition from other companies that have larger financial and other resources than we do, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage. A large number of companies and individuals engage in drilling for gas and oil, and there is competition for the most desirable prospects. We will encounter intense competition from other companies and other entities in the sale of our oil and gas production. We could be competing with numerous oil and gas companies which may have financial resources significantly greater than ours. The quantities of gas and oil to be delivered by us may be affected by factors beyond our control, such as the inability of the wells to deliver at the necessary quality and pressure, premature exhaustion of reserves, changes in governmental regulations affecting allowable production and priority allocations, and price limitations imposed by Federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as foreign governments. We are highly dependent on our management team and consultants and any failure to retain the services of such parties could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our operations or successfully execute our business plan. The successful implementation of our business strategy is highly dependent on our management team and certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals engaged by us. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our overall operations or successfully execute current or future business strategies which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 12 We depend on oil and gas industry vendors and may not be able to obtain adequate services. We are dependent on industry vendors for the success of our oil and gas exploration projects. We could be harmed if we fail to attract quality industry vendors to participate in our exploration and production activities. We may experience potential fluctuations in results of operations. Our future revenues, if any, may be affected by a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including (a) the success of project results; (b) swings in availability of drilling services needed to implement projects and the pricing of such services; (c) a volatile oil and gas pricing market which may make certain projects that we undertake uneconomical; (d) our ability to attract qualified employees and consultants; and (e) the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to conducting our business operations and infrastructure. As a result of our limited operating history and the emerging nature of our business plan, it is difficult to forecast revenues or earnings accurately, which may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In the event we become a penny stock company, FINRA sales practice requirements limit a stockholders' ability to buy and sell our stock. In the event we become subject to the penny stock rules, there are certain rules that have been adopted by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA) to which our common stock will be subject. FINRA rules require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives, and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which has the effect of reducing the level of trading activity and liquidity of our common stock. Further, many brokers charge higher transactional fees for penny stock transactions. As a result, fewer broker-dealers would be willing to make a market in our common stock, reducing a stockholders' ability to resell shares of our common stock. Shareholders could incur negative impact due to the expiration of a lock-up on a significant percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock, or the exercise of options and warrants. Approximately 13,400,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 3,980,000 shares of our common stock are subject to a contractual prohibition, or “lock-up,” preventing the sale of such shares that expires on April 21, 2011. Upon the expiration of the “lock-up”, the shares may become eligible for immediate resale. In the event that a substantial number of these shares are offered for sale in the market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our management controls a significant percentage of our current outstanding common stock; their interests may conflict with those of our shareholders. Our Directors and Executive Officers and their affiliates collectively and beneficially own or control approximately 6% of our voting power (including stock, warrants and options). This concentration of voting control gives our Directors and Executive Officers and their respective affiliates substantial influence over any matters which require a shareholder vote, including, without limitation, the election of Directors, even if their interests may conflict with those of other shareholders. It could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the then prevailing market prices for their shares of common stock. Our stock price is highly volatile, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as: · general economic conditions; · availability of credit; · changes in interest rates; · conditions or trends in the oil and gas business; · fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for oil and gas companies in particular; · quarterly variations in our operating results; 13 · new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business; · combinations and investments by our competitors or us; · changes in environmental regulation; · changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · corporate restructurings, including layoffs or closures of facilities; · stock market analyst reports, news and speculation; · political turmoil in Guinea; and · natural disasters such as hurricane, flooding, earthquake, acts of God. Since we have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not intend to do so in the future, a purchaser of our common stock will only realize a gain on their investment if the market price of our common stock increases. We have never paid, and do not intend to pay, any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon such factors as restrictions contained in future financing facilities, earnings levels, capital requirements, our overall financial condition, and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. A purchaser of our common stock, in all likelihood, will only realize a profit on their investment if the market price of our common stock increases in value. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. The sale of substantial amounts of our shares (including shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock) may cause substantial fluctuations in the price of our common stock. Because investors may be more reluctant to purchase shares of our common or preferred stock following substantial sales or issuances, the sale of shares in an offering could impair our ability to raise capital in the near term. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options or under equity based incentive plans, or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote, and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 