Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves significant risks. Prior to making a decision about investing in common stock, and in consultation with your own financial and legal advisors, you should carefully consider, among other matters, the following risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also inadvertently affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. Risks Relating to Our Business and the Industry in Which We Operate. Our business is dependent on a single exploration asset. The Concession is currently our single exploration asset. We have been conducting exploration work related to offshore Guinea since 2002, including significant seismic data surveys, processing, evaluations and studies, but we have no reserves and there is no assurance that our exploration work will result in any discoveries or in any commercial success. The PSC requires the drilling of a minimum of one additional exploration well to a minimum depth of 2,500 meters below the seabed at a minimum cost of $15 million by September 21, 2016. The PSC has other work and additional obligations that need to be performed to maintain compliance with the PSC. Failure to comply could subject us to risk of loss of the Concession. In addition, oil and natural gas operations in Africa may be subject to higher political, health and security risks than operations in other areas of the world. Any adverse development affecting our operations such as, but not limited to, the drilling and operational hazards described below, could result in damage to, or destruction of, any wells and producing facilities constructed on the Concession as well as damage to life. As the Concession is our only exploration asset, any adverse development affecting it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are investigating potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and anti-money laundering statutes. If an action is commenced or we are found to have violated the FCPA or other legal requirements, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In September 2013 we received a subpoena from the DOJ and in January 2014 we received a subpoena from the SEC. Both subpoenas request that the Company produce documents relating to our business in Guinea. We understand that they are investigating whether our activities in obtaining and retaining the Concession rights and our relationships with charitable organizations potentially violate the FCPA and U.S. anti-money laundering statutes. We are unable to predict when the investigations will be completed, what outcome will result or the total costs we will incur in the course of these investigations. The DOJ and the SEC have a broad range of criminal and civil sanctions under the FCPA and other laws and regulations, which they may seek against corporations and individuals, including injunctive relief, monetary penalties and compliance programs, based on alleged improper payments and deficiencies in books and records and internal controls. In addition, the pendency or outcome of the investigations by the SEC and DOJ could subject us to fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in other jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, loss or delay of our rights under the PSC, that could affect our ability to conduct business operations in those jurisdictions and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. These matters will require the involvement of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business. Current or additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and directors and officers named in those proceedings. We cannot predict at this time the outcome, cost or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review. Legal fees and associated costs in connection with legal proceedings and the FCPA investigations will likely continue to be significant and are expected to adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and results of operations. The pendency of those matters, and the related legal fees and associated costs, could also adversely affect our business relationships. We are involved in several legal proceedings and FCPA investigations. There are significant uncertainties involved in these matters, and we are unable to predict the length of the FCPA investigations or what outcome will result. Although we cannot estimate the total costs we will incur in the course of the investigations, it is likely that we will continue to incur significant expenses for legal fees and associated costs. Similarly, certain legal proceedings that we are involved in are in various stages, and it is unknown whether the cases will be dismissed, tried, or otherwise resolved. These additional expenses, or a negative result, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to conduct business with persons with whom we have business relationships, or with whom we potentially could have business relationships, including potential financing sources, may be adversely affected by the pendency of, and expense related to, these matters, and the uncertain nature of potential outcomes. Due to expected significant costs in connection with our various legal proceedings and the FCPA investigations, our liquidity and financial condition will be strained. Liquidity concerns will be exacerbated if costs associated with Guinea operations, including the operator’s overhead costs and the drilling of the planned exploration well, are greater than $100 million. In addition, these costs and any negative outcomes could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, or to obtain financing on terms advantageous to us. We expect to continue to incur significant legal fees and associated costs, which will adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. The Consortium plans to drill an ultra-deepwater exploration well. Tullow is responsible for payment of our participating interest share of costs associated with the overhead and the drilling of this well up to a gross expenditure cap of $100 million. Accurately predicting well costs and timing is difficult to achieve and there will be considerable uncertainty regarding the actual costs to be incurred. Moreover, Tullow’s delay of the drilling of the exploration well has increased the overhead and other expenditures eroding the $100 million carry. As of June 30, 2014 the Consortium has incurred $14.1 million of costs associated with the carry. Further, when drilling is resumed, budgetary, operating and other risks may be greater for the drilling of an ultra-deepwater well than for a shallower well onshore. Any costs in excess of the $100 million carry could exacerbate our liquidity concerns and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We will need additional financing. We have been successful in obtaining funds through equity financings and the sale of participation interests in our Concession rights in the past, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in the future. The FCPA investigations, costs associated with the exploration well and/or with legal proceedings, and any negative outcomes, could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, or to obtain financing on terms advantageous to us. The Operator in our Consortium has suspended plans for drilling an exploratory well. If drilling is not commenced soon, our ability to obtain additional financing and our financial condition will be adversely affected. On March 11, 2014 Tullow, the Operator in our Consortium, unilaterally asserted its claim that there had been a Force Majeure event under the PSC and suspended plans to drill an exploratory well offshore Guinea. Effective May 3, 2014, Tullow provided notice to the Government of Guinea and the other members of the Consortium that it has unilaterally lifted its declaration of Force Majeure under the PSC and the JOA. Diligent efforts are being made to satisfy the conditions to resuming petroleum operations which includes clarification that the U.S. FCPA investigations of Hyperdynamics will not adversely affect operations under the PSC. However, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of these efforts. Continued delays to resume petroleum operations could cause the exploratory well to be postponed beyond 2014 that could have a material adverse effect on our Concession. The Concession offshore Guinea is our principal asset, and our ability to obtain additional financing is likely dependent upon the valuation of this asset and prospects for exploration in the Concession area. If drilling is not commenced soon, our ability to obtain additional financing and our financial condition will be adversely affected, which may impact our ability to conduct exploration. An inability to conduct exploration could result in an impairment of our unproved properties. Unproved properties as of June 30, 2014 were $14.3 million. 7 Table of Contents The absence of cash inflows into our company raises substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern as reflected in the opinion of the auditors of our financial statements. If we are not successful in carrying out our plans, we may not be able to continue operations. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. As noted in Note 1 to our financial statements, the absence of cash inflows raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have noted this concern in their opinion on our financial statements. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our plans to address this problem are discussed in Note 1. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in carrying out our plans to obtain additional cash resources. If we are unable to obtain additional cash resources, we may not be able to continue operations. We have no proved reserves and our exploration program may not yield oil in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. We have no proved reserves. We have drilled one exploratory well which had non-commercial results. We, and other members of the Consortium, have identified prospects and leads based on seismic and geological information that indicate the potential presence of oil. However, the areas to be drilled may not yield oil in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2D and 3D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. Accordingly, we do not know if any of our prospects will contain oil in sufficient quantities or quality to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. Even if oil is found in commercial quantities, construction costs of oil pipelines or floating production systems, as applicable, and transportation costs may prevent such leads from being economically viable. If these exploration efforts do not prove to be successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. The recent sale of part of our interest in the Concession offshore Guinea improved our liquidity and financial condition, but our capital resources continue to be limited. Our liquidity will be strained if drilling cost estimates are exceeded, and we may need new funding for additional exploration in the Concession, the availability of which is unknown. We received $27 million in December 2012 at closing of the sale to Tullow of a 40% gross interest in the Concession, which improved our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, Tullow agreed to make payments for our participating share (37%) of the costs in connection with the drilling of a deep water exploration well and, if drilled, an appraisal well in respect of such deep water exploration well. However, for each well there is a gross expenditure cap of $100 million. Drilling in deep water is expensive, and cost overruns often occur. If costs for the initial deep water well, or the appraisal well (if drilled), are greater than the amount agreed to be paid by Tullow, we will be responsible for our share of these costs. Our current capital resources are limited and may not be sufficient. Additional exploration activity in the Concession, including additional seismic surveys or the drilling of additional wells, would likely require that we obtain additional funding to pay for our share of such costs. We may seek such funding through additional sales of interest in the Concession, from equity or debt financings, or through other means. We have no commitments for additional funding, and if obtained, the terms may not be advantageous to us. Efforts to attract commercial partners may not be successful and may not be on terms advantageous to us. We have no source of operating revenue and will likely need to obtain additional resources through sales of additional interests in the Concession, equity or debt financings, or through other means. If we seek to sell additional interests in the Concession, we may not be successful in attracting a commercial partner, or the commercial partner may not have the capital resources or other attributes that are deemed desirable by us. If we enter into an arrangement, the terms may not be advantageous to us. Any such arrangement will likely involve the transfer of a negotiated interest in the Concession, which could reduce the potential profitability of our interest in the Concession. We may not be able to obtain the additional capital necessary to achieve our business plan. Our business is capital intensive, and we must invest a significant amount in our activities. We intend to make substantial capital expenditures to find, develop and produce natural gas and oil reserves. Additional capital could be obtained from a combination of funding sources. The current potential funding sources and the potential adverse effects attributable thereto, include: · sales or assignments of interests in the Concession and exploration program, which would reduce any future revenues from that program while at the same time offsetting potential expenditures; · offerings of equity, equity-linked and convertible debt securities, which would dilute the equity interests of our stockholders; · debt and convertible debt offerings, which would increase our leverage and add to our need for cash to service such debt and which could result in assets being pledged as collateral; and · borrowings from financial institutions, which may subject us to certain restrictive covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to raise additional capital or pay dividends. 8 Table of Contents It is difficult to quantify the amount of financing we may need to fund our business plan in the longer term. The amount of funding we may need in the future depends on various factors such as: · our financial position; · the cost of exploration and drilling; · the prevailing market price of natural gas and oil; and · the lead time required to bring any discoveries to production. If we do not obtain capital resources in the future it is unlikely that we would be able to continue to pursue exploration offshore Guinea and our financial condition and operations would be adversely affected. As a result of our recent sale, we do not own a majority interest in the Concession, and we are not the Operator. We have significantly less influence regarding the timing of exploration and development activities, associated budgets and costs, and other operational decisions. As a result of the sale to Tullow in December 2012, our interest in the Concession was reduced from 77% to 37%. The transfer of operatorship to Tullow was completed in April 2013. The Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) that governs the relationship of the members of the Consortium in the Concession provides significant authority to the Operator. The JOA also requires certain actions to be approved by at least 67% of the interests. We have less ability to influence operations, including the timing of exploration and development activities, the amount of capital expenditures, and other material operating decisions. The reduced ability to influence operations may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The PSC is subject to renegotiation under certain conditions, which may have an adverse impact upon our operations and profitability. The PSC provides that should the Guinea government note material differences between provisions of the PSC and international standards or the Guinea Petroleum Code, the parties will renegotiate the relevant articles of the PSC. If the Guinea government identifies material differences between the PSC’s provisions and international standards or the Guinea Petroleum Code, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate an acceptable modification to the PSC. If the parties are not successful in renegotiating the relevant articles of the PSC, the parties may be required to submit the matter to international arbitration. There is no assurance that any arbitration would be successful or otherwise lead to articles that are more favorable to us than the present articles. Therefore, the results of such negotiations or arbitration could be unfavorable to us and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operation and future cash flows. We are highly dependent on our management team and consultants, and any failure to retain the services of such parties could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our operations or successfully execute our business plan. Our business is dependent on retaining the services of a small number of key personnel of the appropriate caliber as the business develops. Our success is, and will continue to be to a significant extent, dependent upon the expertise and experience of the directors, senior management and certain key personnel, but the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our overall operations or successfully execute current or future business strategies. If any member of management or director were to leave our company, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits concerning shareholder claims and other matters. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. While we have director and officer insurance, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. Although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact on our financial statements also could occur for any period it was determined that an unfavorable final outcome is probable and reasonably estimable. Drilling wells is speculative and potentially hazardous. Actual costs may be more than our estimates, and may not result in any discoveries. The cost of our recently drilled exploratory well was significantly higher than expected. Exploring for and developing oil reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The budgeted costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded. The cost of our recently drilled exploratory well, the Sabu-1, was higher than we initially expected, primarily due to numerous delays and issues related to mechanical and operational matters on the rig, logistical delays resulting from limited port facilities in Guinea, and an expanded well logging program. In addition, oil was not discovered in commercial quantities. Unexpected delays and increases in costs associated with wells drilled in the future, could adversely affect our results of operation, financial position, liquidity and business plans. 9 Table of Contents Drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geological conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. The successful drilling of an oil well may not be indicative of the potential for the development of a commercially viable field and will not necessarily result in a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. There are a variety of operating risks, including: · blowouts, cratering and explosions; · mechanical and equipment problems; · uncontrolled flows of oil and gas or well fluids; · fires; · marine hazards with respect to offshore operations; · formations with abnormal pressures; · pollution and other environmental risks; and · weather conditions and natural disasters. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks particular to the marine environment, such as capsizing and collisions. Also, offshore operations are subject to damage or loss from adverse weather conditions. Any of these events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses. The site for the next exploratory well the Consortium plans to drill will be in deep water. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies than exploration in shallower waters, involving a higher risk of equipment failure and usually higher drilling costs. In addition, there may be production risks of which we are currently unaware. If we participate in the development of new subsea infrastructure and use floating production systems to transport oil from producing wells, these operations may require substantial time for installation or encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant liabilities, cost overruns or delays. Furthermore, deepwater operations generally, and operations in West Africa in particular, lack the physical oilfield service infrastructure present in other regions. As a result, a significant amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil and natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risks involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of this infrastructure, further discoveries the Consortium may make in Guinea may never be economically producible. We have no ability to control the prices that we may receive for oil or gas. Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in prices could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and future operating results. We currently have no source of operating revenue. Our financial condition is based solely on our ability to sell equity or debt securities to investors, enter into an additional joint operating or similar strategic relationship with an industry partner, sell interests related to the Concession or borrow funds. We expect that entering into these joint operating or similar relationships would entail transferring a portion of our interest in the Concession to such partner. Such investors would consider the price of oil and gas in making an investment decision. Declines in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Low oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we could produce economically. Low oil and gas prices in the future could have a negative effect on our future financial results. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: · the level of domestic and foreign supplies of oil; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions and natural disasters; · political conditions in oil producing regions throughout the world; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil production; 10 Table of Contents · speculation as to the future price of oil and natural gas and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts; · price and production controls; · political and economic conditions, including embargoes in oil-producing countries or affecting other oil-producing activities, particularly in the Middle East, Africa, Russia and South America; · continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; · the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; · the price of foreign oil imports; · actions of governments; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · global economic conditions; and · the value of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and fluctuations in exchange rates generally. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict oil and gas prices. Our inability to respond appropriately to changes in these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services, as well as gathering systems and processing facilities, and our dependence on the operator and on industry contractors generally, could adversely impact us. We are dependent on Tullow as the operator and on industry contractors for the success of our oil and gas exploration projects. In particular, our drilling activity offshore of Guinea will require that we have access to offshore drilling rigs and contracts with experienced operators of such rigs. The availability and cost of drilling rigs and other equipment and services, and the skilled personnel required to operate those rigs and equipment is affected by the level and location of drilling activity around the world. An increase in drilling operations worldwide may reduce the availability and increase the cost to us of drilling rigs, other equipment and services, and appropriately experienced drilling contractors. The reduced availability of such equipment and services may delay our ability to discover reserves and higher costs for such equipment and services may increase our costs, both of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future cash flow. If we succeed in constructing oil wells, we may be required to shut them because access to pipelines, gathering systems or processing facilities may be limited or unavailable. If that were to occur, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the failure or non-performance of commercial counterparties. Our operations will be dependent on certain third parties with whom we have commercial agreements (such as drilling contractors and the parties responsible for transporting and/or storing our production) for our future exploration, development, production, sales or other activities. The efficiency, timeliness and quality of contract performance by third party providers are largely beyond our direct control. If one or more of these third parties fails to meet its contractual obligations to us, or if such services are temporarily or permanently unavailable (for example, as a result of technical problems or industrial action), or not available on commercially acceptable terms, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future cash flow. In addition, as a named party under the PSC, we could be held liable for the environmental, health and safety impacts arising out of the activities of our drilling project management contractor or any other third party service provider contracted by us or on our behalf, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future cash flow. Participants in the oil and gas industry are subject to numerous laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and production activities in the oil and gas industry are subject to local laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, particularly in respect of the following matters: · licenses for drilling operations; · tax increases, including retroactive claims; 11 Table of Contents · unitization of oil accumulations; · local content requirements (including the mandatory use of local partners and vendors); and · environmental requirements and obligations, including investigation and/or remediation activities. Under these and other laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other types of damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, new laws and regulations may be enacted and current laws and regulations could change or their interpretations could change, in ways that could substantially increase our costs. These risks may be higher in the developing countries in which we conduct our operations, where there could be a lack of clarity or lack of consistency in the application of these laws and regulations. Any resulting liabilities, penalties, suspensions or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the explosion and sinking in April 2010 of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig during operations on the Macondo exploration well in the Gulf of Mexico, and the resulting oil spill, may have increased certain of the risks faced by those drilling for oil in deepwater regions, including increased industry standards, governmental regulation and enforcement, and less favorable investor perception of the risk-adjusted benefits of deepwater offshore drilling. The occurrence of any of these factors, or the continuation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or future results of operations. We may not be able to commercialize our interests in any natural gas produced from our Guinea Concession. The development of the market for natural gas in West Africa is in its early stages. Currently there is no infrastructure to transport and process natural gas on commercial terms in Guinea, and the expenses associated with constructing such infrastructure ourselves may not be commercially viable given local prices currently paid for natural gas. Accordingly, there may be limited or no value derived from any natural gas produced from our Guinea Concession. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses, or we could be subject to uninsured liabilities which could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. There are circumstances where insurance will not cover the consequences of an event, or where we may become liable for costs incurred in events or incidents against which we either cannot insure or may elect not to have insured (whether on account of prohibitive premium costs or for other commercial reasons). Further, insurance covering certain matters (such as sovereign risk, terrorism and many environmental risks) may not be available to us. Moreover, we may be subject to large excess payments in the event a third party has a valid claim against us, and therefore may not be entitled to recover the full extent of our loss, or may decide that it is not economical to seek to do so. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our future activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future cash flow. There are risks associated with the drilling of oil and natural gas wells which could significantly reduce our revenues or cause substantial losses, impairing our future operating results. We may become subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs or other hazards, including those arising out of the activities of our third-party contractors. We intend to obtain insurance with respect to certain of these hazards, but such insurance likely will have limitations that may prevent us from recovering the full extent of such liabilities. The payment by us of such liabilities could reduce the funds available to us or could, in an extreme case, result in a total loss of our properties and assets. Moreover, oil and natural gas production operations are also subject to all the risks typically associated with such operations, including premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations. We have competition from other companies that have larger financial and other resources than we do, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage. A large number of companies and individuals engage in drilling for gas and oil, and there is competition for the most desirable prospects. We are likely to face competition from international oil and gas companies, which already may have significant operations in a region, together with potential new entrants into such markets, any of which may have greater financial, technological and other resources than us. There is a high degree of competition for the discovery and acquisition of properties considered to have a commercial potential. We compete with other companies for the acquisition of oil and gas interests, as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with other existing oil and gas companies, or any new entrants to the industry. Any failure by us to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future cash flow. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions, and the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions may never be realized. As a part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other assets, particularly those that would allow us to produce oil and natural gas and generate revenue to fund our exploration activities. Any future acquisitions would be accompanied by risks such as: · diversion of our management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; · our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful development of the asset or assets acquired; · impairment of our relationship with our existing employees if we cannot hire employees to staff any new operations and our existing employees are required to staff both old and new operations; and · maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. We do not have reserve reports for the Concession and our expectations as to oil and gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from any actual production. We do not have reserves nor do we have any reserve reports for the Concession. A reserve report is the estimated quantities of oil and gas based on reports prepared by third party reserve engineers. Reserve reporting is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Expectations as to oil and gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from any actual production. Risks Relating to Operating in Guinea Geopolitical instability where we operate subjects us to political, economic and other uncertainties. We conduct business in Guinea, which is in a region of the world where there have been recent civil wars, revolutions, coup d’états and internecine conflicts. There is the risk of political violence and increased social tension in Guinea as a result of the past political upheaval, and there is a risk of civil unrest, crime and labor unrest at times. In 2010, democratic elections were held, and a president was elected and inaugurated. While these developments indicate that the political situation in Guinea is improving, external or internal political forces potentially could create a political or military climate that might cause a change in political leadership, the outbreak of hostilities, or civil unrest. Such uncertainties could result in our having to cease our Guinea operations and result in the loss or delay of our rights under the PSC. Further, we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to our operations, which may include, among other things: · loss of future revenue, property and equipment, as a result of hazards such as expropriation, war, acts of terrorism, insurrection and other political risks; · increases in taxes and governmental royalties; · unilateral renegotiation or cancellation of contracts by governmental entities; · difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; · changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; and · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Realization of any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects. The Consortium’s operations in Guinea also may be adversely affected by laws and policies of multiple jurisdictions. 13 Table of Contents We operate in Guinea, a country where corrupt behavior exists that could impair our ability to do business in the future or result in significant fines or penalties. We operate in Guinea, a country where governmental corruption has been known to exist. There is a risk of violating either the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In addition, the future success of our Guinea operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, risk of war, expropriation, terrorism, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, tax laws and changes in exchange rates. We are subject to governmental regulations, the cost of compliance with which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and future cash flow. Oil and gas operations in Guinea will be subject to government regulation and to interruption or termination by governmental authorities on account of ecological and other considerations. It is impossible to predict future government proposals that might be enacted into law, future interpretation of existing laws or future amendments to the Guinea Petroleum Code or any other laws, or the effect those new or amended laws or changes in interpretation of existing laws might have on us. Restrictions on oil and gas activities, such as production restrictions, price controls, tax increases and pollution and environmental controls may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and future cash flows. Social, economic and health conditions in Guinea may adversely affect our business, results of operation, financial condition and future cash flow. As all of our potential revenue generating assets are currently located in Guinea, our operations are dependent on the economic and political conditions prevailing in Guinea. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business in and with a foreign country, including the risks of changes in the country’s laws and policies (including those relating to taxation, royalties, acquisitions, disposals, imports and exports, currency, environmental protection, management of natural resources, exploration and development of mines, labor and safety standards, and historical and cultural preservation). The costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations are substantial, and possible future laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations could impose additional costs on us, require us to incur additional capital expenditures and/or impose restrictions on or suspensions of our operations and delays in the development of our assets. Further, these laws and regulations may allow government authorities and private parties to bring legal claims based on damages to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our past and current operations and could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions. If material, these compliance costs, claims or fines could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or growth prospects. In addition, Guinea has high levels of poverty, crime, unemployment and an undeveloped health care system. An Epidemic of the Ebola virus disease is ongoing in West Africa and may adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. An epidemic of the Ebola virus disease is ongoing in Guinea and other parts of West Africa. More than 1,000 deaths have been reported by the World Health Organization (“WHO”) in West Africa, and the WHO has declared it a global health emergency. It is impossible to predict the effect and potential spread of the Ebola virus in Guinea or surrounding countries. Should the Ebola virus continue to spread or not be satisfactorily contained in Guinea or surrounding countries, drilling plans could be delayed, or interrupted after commencement. Any changes to drilling operations could significantly increase costs of operations. The planned drilling activities of the Consortium require access to the Conakry airport and other infrastructure in Guinea. Several countries have announced travel bans to the neighboring countries of Sierra Leone and Liberia. If bans are extended to Guinea, or contractors or personnel refuse to travel there, the Consortium could be adversely affected. If services are obtained, costs associated with those services could be significantly higher than planned which will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and future cash flow. The legal and judicial system in Guinea is relatively undeveloped and subject to frequent changes, and we may be exposed to similar risks if we operate in certain other jurisdictions. Guinea has a less developed legal and judicial system than more established economies which could result in risks such as: (i) effective legal redress in the courts of such jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of contract, law or regulation, or in an ownership dispute, being more difficult to obtain; (ii) a higher degree of discretion on the part of Governmental authorities who may be susceptible to corruption; (iii) the lack of judicial or administrative guidance on interpreting applicable rules and regulations; (iv) inconsistencies or conflicts between and within various laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions; or (v) relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in such matters. In Guinea and certain other jurisdictions, the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be more uncertain, creating particular concerns with respect to the Concession or other licenses, permits or approvals required by us for the operation of our business, which may be susceptible to revision or cancellation, and legal redress may be uncertain or delayed. There can be no assurance that joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements will not be adversely affected by the actions of government authorities or others, and the effectiveness of and enforcement of such arrangements in these jurisdictions cannot be assured. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The closing price for our common stock has varied between a high of $6.79 on February 5, 2014 and a low of $1.28 on April 28, 2014 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. On September 8, 2014, the closing price of our common stock was $2.54. This volatility may affect the price at which an investor could sell the common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “— Risks Relating to Our Business and the Industry in Which We Operate”; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. Uncertainties and our present capital resources, absent a cash inflow, create substantial doubt we can continue as a going concern. If we do not obtain additional financing, we could be forced to curtail operations. Due to uncertainties related to the cost, pendency and ultimate outcome of legal proceedings and FCPA investigations, and the costs and outcome of the ultra-deep water exploration well planned to be drilled by the Consortium, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we could be unable to continue exploration and execute our business plan, and we could be forced to curtail operations. We have received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) that we have fallen below its continued listing standards related to average market capitalization and total stockholders’ equity, and we have responded with a business plan to demonstrate our ability to regain compliance within 18 months. On April 24, 2014, we received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) that we fell below the NYSE’s continued listing standards because our average global market capitalization has been less than $50 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, and total stockholders’ equity is less than $50 million. In accordance with NYSE procedures, we submitted a business plan within 45 days from receipt of the NYSE notice to demonstrate our ability to regain compliance within 18 months. The NYSE accepted our plan and our market capitalization has recently exceeded $50 million. We will be subject to ongoing monitoring for compliance with this plan. Our plan, having been accepted by the NYSE, allows our shares to continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE during the 18-month cure period, subject to compliance with other NYSE continued listing standards, including common stock price criteria. We may issue additional shares of common stock in the future, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares and cause dilution to existing stockholders. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Significant sales of shares of our common stock by major stockholders, or the public perception that an offering or sale may occur also could have an adverse effect on the market price of shares of our common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of the existing stockholders, and may dilute the book value per share of our shares of common stock held by existing stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of the shares of common stock. The sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock (including shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares) may cause substantial fluctuations in the price of shares of our common stock. Because investors may be more reluctant to purchase shares of our common stock following substantial sales or issuances, the sale of shares in an offering could impair our ability to raise capital in the near term. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could adversely impact the market price of our shares. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 