Risk Factors.” Government Regulation FDA’s Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must first receive either 510(k) clearance, by filing a 510(k) pre-market notification, or PMA approval, by filing a PMA application, from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to twelve months, but it can take longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years or even longer. We cannot be sure that 510(k) clearance or PMA approval will ever be obtained for any product we propose to market. The FDA decides whether a device must undergo either the 510(k) clearance or PMA approval process based upon statutory criteria. These criteria include the level of risk that the agency perceives is associated with the device and a determination whether the product is a type of device that is similar to devices that are already legally marketed. Devices deemed to pose relatively less risk are placed in either Class I or II, which requires the manufacturer to submit a pre-market notification requesting 510(k) clearance, unless an exemption applies. Class I devices are those for which safety and effectiveness can be assured by adherence to the FDA’s general regulatory controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials (General Controls). Some Class I devices also require premarket clearance by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process. Class II devices are subject to the FDA’s General Controls, and any other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification procedure. All of our current devices are Class II devices. Class III devices are those devices which have a new intended use, or use advanced technology that is not substantially equivalent to that of a legally marketed device. The safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be assured solely by the General Controls and the other requirements described above. These devices almost always require formal clinical studies to demonstrate safety and effectiveness and must be approved through the premarket approval process described below. Premarket approval applications (and supplemental premarket approval applications) are subject to significantly higher user fees under Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002, or MDUFMA, than are 510(k) premarket notifications. To obtain 510(k) clearance, a company must submit a premarket notification demonstrating that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” in intended use and in technological and performance characteristics to a legally marketed “predicate device” that is either in Class I, Class II, or is a Class III device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, for which the FDA has not yet called for submission of a PMA application. Pursuant to the MDUFMA and the MDUFMA II provisions of the Food and Drug Amendments Act of 2007, unless a specific exemption applies, 510(k) premarket notification submissions are subject to user fees. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a PMA approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA can review any decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. We have modified some of our 510(k) cleared devices, including our Masimo SET Software and Radical, but have determined that, in our view, based on FDA guidance as to when to submit a 510(k) notification for changes to a cleared device, new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals are not required. We cannot assure you that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for any modification, we also may be required to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until we obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or deemed not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device, are placed in Class III. These devices are required to undergo the PMA approval process in which the manufacturer must establish the safety and effectiveness of the device to the FDA’s satisfaction. A PMA application must provide extensive preclinical and clinical trial data and also information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with the QSR. New premarket approval, or PMA, applications or PMA application supplements are required for modifications that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, including, for example, certain types of modifications to the device’s indication for use, manufacturing process, labeling and design. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of 15 Table of Contents information as a PMA application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA application, and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. None of our products are currently approved under a PMA. A clinical trial may be required in support of a 510(k) submission and generally is required for a PMA application. These trials generally require an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, application approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a nonsignificant risk device eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results. Clinical trials may begin if the IDE application is approved by the FDA and the appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval to market the product in the U.S. We believe that our OEM partners may be required to obtain 510(k) premarket clearance from the FDA for products that incorporate Masimo SET or Masimo Rainbow SET circuit boards and sensors. In order to facilitate our OEM partners in obtaining 510(k) clearance for their products that incorporate Masimo SET or Masimo Rainbow SET boards and sensors, we have submitted and received FDA clearance for 45 510(k) notices covering our Masimo SET circuit boards, sensors, cables and notification systems. In the future, we may be required to submit additional 510(k) clearance to address new claims, uses or products. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not deem one or more of our future products (or those of our OEM partners) to be a Class III device subject to the more burdensome PMA approval process. The FDA also may not approve or clear these products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Indeed, the FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products. Pervasive and Continuing FDA Regulation After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. Those regulatory requirements include: • product listing and establishment registration, which helps facilitate FDA inspections and other regulatory action; • QSR, which require manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; • labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label use or indication; • clearance of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in intended use of one of our cleared devices; • approval of product modifications that affect the safety or effectiveness of one of our approved devices; • medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, which require that manufacturers comply with FDA requirements to report if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur; • post-approval restrictions or conditions, including post-approval study commitments; • post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device; • the FDA’s recall authority, whereby it can ask, or under certain conditions order, device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; • regulations pertaining to voluntary recalls; and • notices of corrections or removals. We must also register with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer and must obtain all necessary state permits or licenses to operate our business. As a manufacturer, we are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA’s QSR and other regulations. Our OEM partners also are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA to determine compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that our OEM partners or we have failed to comply, the agency can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: • fines and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; 16 Table of Contents • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; • withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Our failure (or the failure of our OEM partners) to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other U.S. Regulation We and our OEM partners also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws relating to matters such as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and hazardous substance disposal. We cannot be sure that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future or that these laws or regulations will not hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental Our manufacturing processes involve the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, including silicone adhesives, solder and solder paste, sealants, epoxies and various solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone, acetone and isopropyl alcohol. As such, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Future environmental laws may require us to alter our manufacturing processes, thereby increasing our manufacturing costs. We believe that our products and manufacturing processes at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws; however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated. Health Care Fraud and Abuse In the United States, there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that generally prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration in exchange for the referral of patients or other health-related business. For example, the Federal Health Care Programs’ Anti-Kickback Law (42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b)) prohibits anyone from, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any bribe, kickback or other remuneration intended to induce the referral of patients for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, health care products and services reimbursed by a federal health care program (including Medicare and Medicaid). Recognizing that the federal anti-kickback law is broad and potentially applicable to many commonplace arrangements, the Office of Inspector General within the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, has issued regulations, known as the safe harbors, which identify permissible practices. If all of the requirements of an applicable safe harbor are met, an arrangement will not be prosecuted under this law. Safe harbors exist for a number of arrangements relevant to our business, including, among other things, payments to bona fide employees, certain discount and rebate arrangements, and certain payment arrangements involving GPOs. The failure of an arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal. However, conduct that does not fully satisfy each requirement of an applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG or the Department of Justice. Violations of this federal law can result in significant penalties, including imprisonment, monetary fines and assessments, and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs. Exclusion of a manufacturer, like us, would preclude any federal health care program from paying for its products. In addition to the federal anti-kickback law, many states have their own kickback laws. Often, these state laws closely follow the language of the federal law. Some state anti-kickback laws apply regardless of whether federal health care program payment is involved. Federal and state anti-kickback laws may affect our sales, marketing and promotional activities, educational programs, pricing and discount practices and policies, and relationships with health care providers by limiting the kinds of arrangements we may have with hospitals, EMS providers, GPOs, physicians and others in a position to purchase or recommend our products. Federal and state false claims laws prohibit anyone from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payers that are false or fraudulent. For example, the federal Civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq.) imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly and willfully presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program (including Medicaid and Medicare). Manufacturers, like us, can be held liable under false 17 Table of Contents claims laws, even if they do not submit claims to the government, where they are found to have caused submission of false claims by, among other things, providing incorrect coding or billing advice about their products to customers that file claims, or by engaging in kickback arrangements with customers that file claims. A number of states also have false claims laws, and some of these laws may apply to claims for items or services reimbursed under Medicaid and/or commercial insurance. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, and imprisonment. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: health care fraud and false statements related to healthcare matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and imprisonment. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, it is possible that some of our current or future practices might be challenged under one or more of these laws. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws or the adoption of new federal or state laws or regulations could adversely affect many of the arrangements we have with customers and physicians. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that some of these laws are broad and open to interpretation. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, which could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Privacy and Security of Health Information Numerous federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, including HIPAA. HIPAA applies to covered entities, which include most healthcare facilities that purchase and use our products. The HIPAA Privacy Rule restricts the use and disclosure of patient information, and requires covered entities to safeguard that information and to provide certain rights to individuals with respect to that information. The HIPAA Security Rule establishes elaborate requirements for safeguarding patient information transmitted or stored electronically. We are not a covered entity and our business is not directly subject to HIPAA. In certain circumstances the HIPAA rules require covered entities to contractually bind us, as a business associate, to protect the privacy and security of health information we may encounter during activities like training customers on the use of our products or investigating product performance. The HIPAA standards also apply to the use and disclosure of health information for research, and require the covered entity performing the research to obtain the written authorization of the research subject (or an appropriate waiver) before providing that subject’s health information to sponsors like us for purposes related to the research. These covered entities also typically impose contractual limitations on our use and disclosure of the health information they disclose to us. We may be required to make costly system modifications to comply with the privacy and security requirements that will be imposed on us contractually by covered entities, and our failure to comply may result in liability and adversely affect our business. Numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of patient information, including state medical privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws. These various laws in many cases are not preempted by the HIPAA rules and may be subject to varying interpretations by the courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our customers and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal or patient information and these laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we must handle health care related data, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. If we do not properly comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. Foreign Regulation Many foreign countries in which we market or may market our products have regulatory bodies and restrictions similar to those of the FDA. International sales are subject to foreign government regulation, the requirements of which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. Companies are now required to obtain the CE Mark prior to sale of some medical devices within the 18 Table of Contents European Union. During this process, the sponsor must demonstrate compliance with the International Organization for Standardization’s manufacturing and quality requirements. We do have CE Marking on all our products that require such markings. We cannot assure you that we or our OEM partners will be able to obtain necessary foreign government approvals or successfully comply with foreign regulations. Our failure to do so could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-Party Reimbursement Health care providers, including hospitals, that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payers, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payers, such as indemnity insurers and managed care plans, to cover and reimburse all or part of the cost of the products and the procedures in which they are used. As a result, demand for our products is dependent in part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of these payers. No uniform coverage or reimbursement policy for medical technology exists among all third-party payers, as coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, along with its contractors, establish coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Because a large percentage of the hospitals using our products treat elderly or disabled individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries, Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of Medicare. We cannot assure you that government or private third-party payers will cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate. In general, Medicare will cover a medical product or procedure when the product or procedure is reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury, or to improve the functioning of a malformed body part. Even if the medical product or procedure is considered medically necessary and coverage is available, Medicare may place restrictions on the circumstances where it provides coverage. For example, several Medicare local contractors have issued policies that restrict coverage for pulse oximetry in the hospital inpatient and outpatient settings to a limited number of conditions, including limiting coverage to patients who (i) exhibit signs of acute respiratory dysfunction, (ii) have chronic lung disease, severe cardiopulmonary disease or neuromuscular disease involving the muscles of respiration, (iii) are under treatment with a medication with known pulmonary toxicity, or (iv) have sustained multiple trauma or complaints of acute chest pain. Reimbursement for our products may vary not only by the type of payer involved but also based upon the setting in which the product is furnished and utilized. For example, Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for patient stays in the hospital inpatient and outpatient settings involving the use of our products. Medicare generally reimburses hospitals based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital inpatient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient’s condition and other patient data and procedures performed during the inpatient stay, using a classification system known as diagnosis-related groups, or DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences, co-morbidity, and complications. Hospitals generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing our products for use in the inpatient setting. Rather, Medicare reimbursement for these costs is deemed to be included within the prospective payments made to hospitals for the inpatient services in which the products are utilized. In contrast, some differences may be seen in the reimbursement for use of our products in hospital outpatient departments. In this setting, Medicare payments also are generally made under a prospective payment system based on the ambulatory payment classifications, or APCs, under which individual items and procedures are categorized. Hospitals receive the applicable APC payment rate for the procedure regardless of the actual cost for such treatment. Some outpatient services such as oximetry services do not receive separate reimbursement. Rather, their reimbursement is deemed packaged into the APC for an associated procedure. Effective January 1, 2007, however, reimbursement for certain pulse oximetry monitoring services, including those using our products, will no longer be packaged, but rather may receive a separate payment under APC 0443 (“Overnight Pulse Oximetry”) when no other separately payable services are provided. This could result in an increase in Medicare payments to our customers for the use of our products in the hospital outpatient setting. Because PPS payments in both the hospital inpatient and outpatient settings are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital’s actual costs in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their operating costs by utilizing products that will reduce the length of inpatient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs. We cannot be certain that a hospital will purchase our products, despite the clinical benefits and opportunity for cost savings that we believe can be derived from their use. If hospitals cannot obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, or the procedures in which they are used, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our success with Rainbow SET technologies in U.S. care areas with reimbursable test procedures, such as hospital emergency department, hospital procedure labs, and the physician office will largely depend on the ability of providers to receive reimbursement for such testing procedures. As of January 2009, Masimo received Medicare coding and pricing for noninvasive carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin, with a reimbursable amount of $7.33 per day. While private insurance payers generally follow Medicare coding and pricing, we cannot be certain of this and in many cases, cannot control the coverage or payment rates that private insurance payers 19 Table of Contents put in place. We applied for a CPT code for total hemoglobin and believe we will receive coding and pricing by the end of 2009, but we cannot be certain that we will receive such coding or a price that will favorable to providers wishing to include noninvasive total hemoglobin in their practice. Our success in non-U.S. markets depends largely upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from the third-party payers through which health care providers are paid in those markets. Health care payment systems in non-U.S. markets vary significantly by country, and include single-payer, government managed systems as well as systems in which private payers and government-managed systems exist side-by-side. Our ability to achieve market acceptance or significant sales volume in international markets we enter will be dependent in large part on the availability of reimbursement for procedures performed using our products under health care payment systems in such markets. There can be no assurance that reimbursement for our products, or the procedures in which our products are used, will be obtained or that such reimbursement will be adequate. Manufacturing Our strategy is to manufacture products in-house when it is efficient and cost-effective for us to do so. We currently manufacture internally our bedside and handheld pulse oximeters, our full line of disposable and reusable sensors and most of our patient cables. As of January 3, 2009, we had 1,188 employees and contract employees in manufacturing and quality worldwide. We maintain a 25,000 square foot International Organization for Standardization 13485:2003 certified manufacturing area in our facility in Irvine, California, and a 95,600 square foot facility in Mexicali, Mexico. We will continue to utilize third-party contract manufacturers for products and subassemblies that can be more efficiently manufactured by these parties, such as our circuit boards. We monitor our third-party manufacturers and perform inspections and product tests at various steps in the manufacturing cycle to ensure compliance with our specifications. We also do full functional testing of our circuit boards. For raw materials, we and our contract manufacturers rely on sole source suppliers for some components, including digital signal processor chips and analog to digital converter chips. We and our contract manufacturers have taken steps to minimize the impact of a shortage or stoppage of shipments of digital signal processor chips or analog to digital converter chips, including maintaining excess inventory and designing software that may be easily ported to another digital signal processor chip. We believe that our sources of supply for components and raw materials are adequate. In the event of a delay or disruption in the supply of sole source components, we believe that we and our contract manufacturers will be able to locate additional sources of these sole source components on commercially reasonable terms and without experiencing material disruption in our business or operations. We have four major suppliers, and our agreements with each provide for varying terms with respect to term, termination and pricing. The initial terms of each of these agreements have expired, however, in each case the parties have either continued to perform under the agreement or the agreement provides for automatic renewal. While one such agreement does not provide for express termination rights, the remaining three agreements allow for termination upon specified notice, ranging from 120 days to six months, to the non-terminating party. Each of these agreements allow for pricing adjustments: all four involve annual pricing negotiation, and one also assures us of the most favorable pricing offered to any other customer. Operating Segment and Geographic Information We operate in one business segment, using one measurement of profitability to manage our business. Sales and other financial information by geographic area is provided in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements that are included in this Form 10-K. Employees As of January 3, 2009, including Masimo Labs, we had approximately 1,739 full-time employees and contract employees worldwide, 136 of which were engaged in research and development, 1,188 of which were engaged in manufacturing and quality assurance, 324 of which were engaged in sales and marketing and 91 of which were engaged in general and administrative functions. Address Our principal executive offices are located at 40 Parker, Irvine, California 92618, and our telephone number at that address is (949) 297-7000. Our website address is http://www.masimo.com. Any information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor is it in any way a part of, this Form 10-K. Executive Officers of the registrant Our executive officers, as of January 3, 2009, are set forth below: Name Age1 Position(s) Joe E. Kiani 44 Chief Executive Officer & Chairman of the Board of Directors Ammar Al-Ali 45 Chief Technical Officer Jon Coleman 45 President, International 20 Table of Contents Name Age1 Position(s) Mark P. de Raad 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Rick Fishel 50 President of Masimo Americas David Goodman, M.D. 52 Executive Vice President, Business Development Paul Jansen 38 Executive Vice President, Marketing Yongsam Lee 44 Executive Vice President, Operations & Chief Information Officer Stephen M. Moran, Esq. 52 Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary, and Executive Vice President of Human Capital Michael O’Reilly, M.D. 56 Executive Vice President, Medical Affairs Anand Sampath 42 Executive Vice President, Engineering 1 As of January 3, 2009. Joe E. Kiani is the founder of Masimo and has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors since our inception in 1989. He is an inventor on more than 50 patents related to signal processing, sensors, and patient monitoring, including patents for the invention of measure-through motion and low-perfusion pulse oximetry. Prior to founding Masimo, Mr. Kiani served as Regional Technical Manager for Anthem Electronics, Inc., a distributor of semiconductor and subsystem products, and as Field Applications Engineer for Bell Industries, Inc., which distributes advanced semiconductor components. He also previously served as Product Engineer at Unisys Corporation, a computer manufacturer. Mr. Kiani is currently on the Board of Directors of Saba Software, Inc., a publicly-traded software company focused on human capital development and management solutions and chairman of the Medical Device Manufacturers Association (MDMA). Mr. Kiani holds a B.S.E.E. and an M.S.E.E. from San Diego State University. Ammar Al-Ali has served as our Chief Technical Officer since December 1996. He is an inventor on more than 48 patents related to signal processing, sensors and patient monitoring. From April 1995 to December 1996, Mr. Al-Ali held various positions with us, including Director of Software Development. From January 1992 to November 1994, he served as the Director of Research and Development, Electronics for Ami-Med Corporation, a medical device company that provides instruments for continuous cardiac output. Mr. Al-Ali holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Arizona. Jon Coleman has served as our President, International since August 2008. From October 2007 to August 2008, Mr. Coleman was President and Chief Executive Officer of You Take Control, Inc, a healthcare information technology company. He served as General Manager, Americas of Targus Group International, a supplier of mobile computing cases and accessories, from March 2006 to February 2007. From March 1994 to February 2006, he held progressive leadership positions with Pfizer, Inc, most recently Vice President and General Manager, Canada & Caribbean Region. Mr. Coleman holds a M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and a B.A. in International Relations from Brigham Young University. Mark P. de Raad has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2006. From November 2002 through May 2006, Mr. de Raad served as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary for Avamar Technologies, Inc., a start-up enterprise software development company. He served as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer for ATL Products, Inc., a manufacturer of automated tape libraries, from September 1997 through June 2001. From June 2001 through November 2002, Mr. de Raad was Chief Financial Officer, Quantum Storage Solutions Group, a division of Quantum Corporation, which acquired ATL Products, Inc. in 1998. From May 1987 to May 1997, Mr. de Raad was employed by AST Research, Inc., a personal computer manufacturer, where he held various financial management positions the last of which was Vice President Finance and Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. de Raad is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Santa Clara. Rick Fishel has served as President of Masimo Americas since June 2004. From January 2003 to June 2004, Mr. Fishel was Regional Vice President of Sales for the Information Solutions segment of the McKesson Corporation, a provider of supply, information and care management products and services. From January 2001 to January 2003, he served as National Vice President of Sales for the Consulting Services division of GE Medical Systems, Inc., a provider of medical technology and productivity solutions. Mr. Fishel holds a B.S. in Marketing from Arizona State University. David Goodman, M.D. has served as Executive Vice President of Business Development since September 2008. From September 2006 to September 2008, Dr. Goodman was a practicing physician in Preventative and Occupational Medicine, as well as a Principal with 0 to 1 Solutions, a professional consultancy. From September 2005 to June 2006, Dr. Goodman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of BaroSense, Inc., a medical device company. From January 2004 to September 2005, Dr. Goodman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Interventional Therapeutic Solutions, Inc., an implantable drug delivery systems company. From January 2002 to December 2003, Dr. Goodman served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Pherin Pharmaceuticals, a pharmaceutical discovery and development company. He was the founding Chief Executive Officer, Chief Medical Officer and Director of LifeMaster Supported SelfCare, a disease management services company from June 1994 to December 2001. Also, since June 2004, Dr. Goodman has been on the Board of Directors, as well as the Audit and Compensation Committee of NEUROMetrix, Inc, a medical device company. Dr. Goodman holds 18 U.S. patents. He holds a B.A.S. in Applied Science and 21 Table of Contents Bioengineering and a M.S.E. in Bioengineering from the University of Pennsylvania. He also received an M.D. cum laude from Harvard Medical School and the Harvard-M.I.T. Division of Health Sciences and Technology. Paul Jansen has served as our Executive Vice President of Marketing since April 2008, and was our Vice President of Marketing from January 2008 to April 2008. From August 1997 through December 2007, he served as Vice President, Marketing & Clinical Development for CardioDynamics, a cardiac monitoring and diagnostics company. Mr. Jansen holds a B.S. in Urban Planning and Development from Iowa State University and an M.B.A. from Arizona State University. Yongsam Lee has served as our Executive Vice President, Operations and Chief Information Officer since January 2003. From March 1996 to October 2001 and from April 2002 to December 2002, Mr. Lee held various positions with us, including Vice President, IT and Vice President, Operations. From October 2001 to April 2002, he served as Director of IT at SMC Networks, Inc., a provider of networking solutions. Mr. Lee holds a B.S. in Applied Physics from the University of California, Irvine. Stephen M. Moran, Esq. has served in the dual roles as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary, and Executive Vice President of Human Capital, since July 2008. From February 2003 until July 2008, Mr. Moran served as both Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary, and Vice President of Human Resources & Administration, for Toshiba America Business Solutions, Inc., a global copier, fax and printer company. From January 2000 through January 2003, he served as both Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary and Vice President of Human Resources, of Intersil Corporation, a global semiconductor company. From February 1998 until January 2000, Mr. Moran served as Vice President and General Counsel for Toshiba America Electronic Components, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Moran holds a B.A. in Political Science from Claremont McKenna College and a J.D. from Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. He is a member of the bars of California, Colorado, the District of Columbia and the Supreme Court of the United States. Michael O’Reilly, M.D. has served as our Executive Vice President, Medical Affairs since February 2008. Dr. O’Reilly was an Associate Professor from September 2002 to February 2008, and an Assistant Professor from September 1996 to August 2002, in Anesthesiology at the University of Michigan. He was also the Director of the Liver Transplant Anesthesiology at the University of Michigan and a member of various advisory boards. He has numerous publications in scientific journals, national and international invited presentations and earned various awards and grants. Dr. O’Reilly holds an M.D. and M.S. in Cell Biology from the University of Vermont. Anand Sampath has served as our Executive Vice President, Engineering since March 2007. He is an inventor on more than four patents relating to patient monitoring, wireless networks and communications. From April 2006 to March 2007, Mr. Sampath was our Director of Systems Engineering. From October 1995 to March 2006, he held various positions, including Program Manager, Engineering Manager and Distinguished Member of Technical Staff, at Motorola, Inc. Mr. Sampath holds a B.S. in Engineering from Bangalore University. Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are required to file reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including reports on the following forms: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and other information concerning us may be accessed through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov and on our website at www.masimo.com. Such filings are placed on our website as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks come to fruition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our Masimo SET platform and related products. If this technology and the related products do not continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We are dependent upon the success and market acceptance of our proprietary Masimo SET. Currently, our primary product offerings are based on the Masimo SET platform. Continued market acceptance of products incorporating Masimo SET will depend upon our ability to continue to provide evidence to the medical community that our products are cost-effective and provide significantly improved performance compared to conventional pulse oximeters. Health care providers that currently have significant investments in competitive pulse oximetry products may be reluctant to purchase our products. If hospitals and other health care providers do not believe our Masimo SET platform is cost-effective, more accurate or reliable, they may not buy our products in sufficient quantities to enable us to be profitable. If we are unable to achieve additional market acceptance of our core technology or products incorporating Masimo SET, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. We rely on patent protection, trade secrets, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the claims included in our patents. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual rights with the third parties that license technology to us to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. There is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, our OEM partners, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Our common law trademarks provide less protection than our registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling certain products. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Whether a technology or product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues and is often difficult to determine. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. Searching for existing intellectual property rights may not reveal important intellectual property and our competitors may also have filed for patent protection, which is not publicly-available information, or claimed trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, even those without merit, could: • increase the cost of our products; • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; • force us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, product candidates and technologies; 23 Table of Contents • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property on terms that may not be favorable or acceptable to us; • require us to indemnify third parties pursuant to contracts in which we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement claims; • divert the attention of our management and other key employees; • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products impacted by the claims until the claims are resolved; and • otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten the continued commercialization of our products in the market even after they have already been introduced. We believe competitors may currently be violating and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights, and we may bring additional litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from implementing our business strategy. We believe that the success of our business depends, in significant part, on obtaining patent protection for our products and technologies, defending our patents and preserving our trade secrets. We were previously involved in significant litigation to protect our patent position and may be required to engage in further litigation. In 2006, we settled a costly, six-year lawsuit against Mallinckrodt, Inc., part of Tyco Healthcare (currently Covidien Ltd.), and one of its subsidiaries, Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc., in which we claimed that Nellcor was infringing some of our pulse oximetry signal processing patents. We believe that other competitors of ours, including some of our OEM partners, may be infringing at least one of our patents. Our failure to pursue any potential claim could result in the loss of our proprietary rights and harm our position in the marketplace. Therefore, we may be forced to pursue litigation to enforce our rights. On February 3, 2009, we filed a patent infringement suit against Philips Electronics North America Corporation and Philips Medizin Systeme Böblingen Gmbh related to Philips FAST pulse oximetry technology and certain Philips patient monitors. Both Philips Electronics North America Corporation and Philips Medizin Systeme Böblingen Gmbh are associated with Philips Medical Systems, an OEM partner of ours. We cannot be certain that we will have the required financial resources to pursue this and other litigation or otherwise to protect these rights in the future. In addition, any future litigation could result in significant additional costs and further divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. Some of our products, including those based on licensed Rainbow technology, are in development or have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products that have been recently introduced into the market, including, but not limited to those based on Rainbow technology, a technology that we license, may not be accepted in the market. Our first product incorporating licensed Rainbow technology was made commercially available in September 2005. Given that all Rainbow technologies are new to the marketplace, we do not know to what degree the market will accept these products, if at all. Even if our customers recognize the benefits of our products, we cannot assure you that our customers will purchase them in quantities sufficient for us to be profitable or successful. We will need to invest in significant sales and marketing resources to achieve market acceptance of these products with no assurance of success. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceived effectiveness of our products; • cost of our products; • perceived advantages of our products over competing products; • introduction and acceptance of competing products or technologies; and • obtaining the required domestic and international regulatory approvals for our product candidates under development. In March 2008, we introduced our most recent Rainbow parameter, total hemoglobin. In May 2008, we received FDA clearance to begin to market this new parameter. In September 2008, we began our limited market release of the product and focused on obtaining data and clinical feedback on the performance of the product in the hospital. Since September 2008, we have continued to gather data and input on the device, and expect to continue this activity through the first quarter of 2009. In the first or second quarter of 2009, we intend to commercially launch our total hemoglobin product for continuous monitoring in the hospital. While we are enthusiastic about the products’ long-term market potential, we cannot determine how quickly or successfully the product will be received within its initial targeted market. As with any new technology, there are significant barriers to market adoption and we cannot be assured that the marketplace will respond favorably to this new technology and product. 24 Table of Contents In the second half of 2009, we intend to release our latest parameter, acoustic respiration monitoring, or ARM. As with our total hemoglobin release, we will initially provide this new measurement to the market in a limited market release which will allow us to evaluate the product’s performance in the field. While we believe that we should be able to achieve this market timing, there can be no assurances of this timing and or the regulatory approvals still required. Also, while we expect this product will have an important role within the hospital general floor environment, there can be no assurance that this product will receive be successful within this initial target market. As with any new technology, there are significant barriers to market adoption and we cannot be assured that the marketplace will respond favorably to this new technology and product. In order for any of our products to be accepted in the marketplace, we must demonstrate that they are effective and commercially beneficial. Even if customers accept these products, this acceptance may not result in sales if our competitors develop similar products that our customers prefer. If our products do not gain market acceptance or if our customers prefer our competitors’ products, our potential growth would be limited, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In addition, all manufacturers placing medical devices in European Union markets are legally bound to report to the relevant authority in whose jurisdiction any serious or potentially serious incidents occurred involving devices produced or sold by the manufacturer. We may experience events that may require reporting to the FDA pursuant to the MDR regulations. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, including recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, including inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as any litigation resulting from any adverse event, would require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results. Our products have been, and may in the future be, subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including MDR regulations, that require us to report to the FDA or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects, in for example, design, labeling or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall generally must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or by one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may initiate certain voluntary recalls involving our products in the future. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. If we determine that a recall does not require notification of the FDA, the FDA may disagree with our determination and require us to report the recall to the FDA. From our inception through January 3, 2009, we initiated four voluntary recalls of our products, none of which was material. Each of these recalls was reported to the FDA within the appropriate regulatory timeframes. Because of our dependence upon patient and physician perceptions, any negative publicity associated with these voluntary recalls could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Recent deterioration in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations if our customers’ ability to borrow money from their existing lenders, or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products under long term sensor agreements, were to be impaired. This credit market deterioration could affect our ability to acquire new customers for our products. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the allowances we have established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the recent deterioration of the credit markets of the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required. These additional allowances could materially affect our financial results. Our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET and our right to use Rainbow technology are each limited to certain markets by our Cross-Licensing Agreement with Masimo Labs, which may impair our growth and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In May 1998, we created a newly-formed entity, Masimo Laboratories, Inc., or Masimo Labs, and provided it rights to use Masimo SET to commercialize non-vital signs monitoring applications while we retained the rights to Masimo SET to commercialize vital signs monitoring applications. On May 2, 1998, we entered into a cross-licensing agreement with Masimo Labs, which has been amended several times, most recently in an Amended and Restated Cross-Licensing Agreement, effective January 1, 2007, or the Cross-Licensing Agreement. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we granted Masimo Labs: • an exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET owned by us, including all improvements on this technology, for the measurement of non-vital signs measurements and to develop and sell devices incorporating Masimo SET for monitoring non-vital signs measurements in any product market in which a product is intended to be used by a patient or pharmacist rather than by a professional medical caregiver, which we refer to as the Labs Market, and • a non-exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET for measurement of vital signs in the Labs Market. Non-vital signs measurements consist of body fluid constituents other than vital signs measurements, including but not limited to carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, blood glucose, total hemoglobin and bilirubin. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we are only permitted to sell devices utilizing Masimo SET for the measurement of non-vital signs measurements in markets where the product is intended to be used by a professional medical caregiver, including but not limited to hospital caregivers and emergency medical services, or EMS, facility caregivers, rather than by a patient or pharmacist, which we refer to as the Masimo Market. Accordingly, our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET is limited. In particular, our inability to expand beyond the Masimo Market may impair our growth and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we have licensed from Masimo Labs the right to make and distribute products in the Masimo Market that utilize Rainbow technology for the measurement of only carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation and total hemoglobin, which includes hematocrit. As a result, the opportunity to expand the market for our products incorporating Rainbow technology is limited, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and impair our growth. We will be required to pay Masimo Labs for the right to use certain improvements to Masimo SET that we develop. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, if we develop improvements to Masimo SET for the noninvasive measurement of non-vital signs measurements, we would be required to assign these developments to Masimo Labs and then license the technology back from Masimo Labs in consideration for a license fee and royalty obligations to Masimo Labs. Therefore, any improvement to this technology would be treated as if it had been developed exclusively by Masimo Labs. In addition, we will not be reimbursed by Masimo Labs for our expenses relating to the development of any such technology. As a result of these terms, we may not generate any revenue from the further development of Masimo SET for the measurement of non-vital signs measurements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that the Cross-Licensing Agreement is terminated for any reason, or Masimo Labs grants a license to Rainbow technology to a third party, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Masimo Labs owns all of the proprietary rights to Rainbow technology developed with our proprietary Masimo SET for products intended to be used in the Labs Market, and all rights for any non-vital signs measurement for which we do not exercise an option pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement. In addition, Masimo Labs has the right to terminate the Cross-Licensing Agreement or grant licenses covering Rainbow technology to third parties if we breach certain terms of the agreement, including any failure to meet our minimum royalty payment obligations or failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop or market products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology. If we lose our exclusive license to Rainbow technology, we may not be able to develop comparable technology or license similar technology on commercially favorable terms or at all, and we would lose the ability to prevent others from making, using, selling or importing products using Rainbow technology in our market. As a result, we would likely be subject to increased competition within our market, and Masimo Labs or competitors who obtain a license to Rainbow technology from Masimo Labs would be able to offer related products. 26 Table of Contents We are required to pay royalties to Masimo Labs for all products sold that contain Rainbow technology, including certain annual minimum royalty payments, and this may impact our gross margins, if we discontinue consolidating Masimo Labs within our financial statements. The Cross-Licensing Agreement requires us to pay Masimo Labs a royalty for all products that we sell which include their proprietary Rainbow technology. This includes handheld, table-top and multi-measurement products that incorporate licensed Rainbow technology. Beginning in 2009, for hospital contracts where we place equipment and enter into a sensor contract, we will pay a royalty to Masimo Labs on the total sensor contract revenue based on the ratio of Rainbow enabled devices to total devices. The agreement also requires that we provide to Masimo Labs, at its request, up to 10% of our annual board and sensor production volume at our total manufactured cost. In addition to these specific royalty and product obligations, our Cross-Licensing Agreement requires that we pay Masimo Labs specific annual minimum royalty payments. Currrently, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities—an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,” or FIN 46(R), we are currently required to consolidate Masimo Labs within our financial statements. Accordingly, the royalties that we owe to Masimo Labs are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements presented within this Form 10-K. As a result, the gross profit margins reported in our consolidated financial results do not include the royalty expense that we pay to Masimo Labs. Also in accordance with FIN 46(R), we are obligated to include Masimo Labs’ engineering and administrative expenses in our reported engineering and administrative expenses. As a result, our reported engineering and administrative expenses include Masimo Labs’s engineering and administrative expenses. If our financial statements were not consolidated with Masimo Labs, our reported cost of goods sold would increase and our reported engineering and administrative expenses would decrease. As a result of this requirement to consolidate, we report within our public filings, both our reported gross profit, engineering expense and administrative expenses as if we were not required to consolidate. To date, the amount of royalty expense has approximated the amount of engineering and administrative expense and therefore, the net impact to our consolidated financial statements has not been significant. However, in the future, depending upon the success of Rainbow products and the royalties earned by Labs on those revenues, it is possible that the royalty expense will grow at a rate higher than the growth of engineering and administrative expenses. In the event the net impact on our consolidated results is material, we will reflect the amount of Labs income through our profit and loss statement as an element of minority interest income. As a result, despite the current requirement to consolidate, any profit in our consolidated financial results that is attributable to Masimo Labs will be separately identified. Despite describing and reflecting this Masimo Labs consolidation requirement within our financial statements, it is possible that, if the reader of our financial statements do not understand or appreciate the significant of our consolidation of Masimo Labs financial statements in our FIN 46(R), they may draw inaccurate perspectives and conclusions regarding our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to commercialize our products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology cost-effectively or successfully. It is more expensive for us to make products that incorporate Rainbow technology than products that do not due to increased production costs and the royalties that we must pay to Masimo Labs. In order to successfully commercialize products incorporating Rainbow technology, we must be able to pass these higher costs on to the market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell products incorporating Rainbow technology at a price the market is willing to accept. If we cannot commercialize our products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology successfully, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue from these products to be profitable, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rights provided to Masimo Labs in the Cross-Licensing Agreement may impede a change in control of our company. In the event we undergo a change in control, we are required to immediately pay a $2.5 million fee to exercise an option to license technology developed by Masimo Labs for use in blood glucose monitoring. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, a change in control includes, but is not limited to, the resignation or termination of Joe E. Kiani from his position of Chief Executive Officer of either Masimo or Masimo Labs. Additionally, our per product royalties payable to Masimo Labs will become subject to specified minimums, and the minimum aggregate annual royalties for all licensed Rainbow measurements payable to Masimo Labs will increase to up to $15.0 million for carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation, total hemoglobin and blood glucose, plus up to $2.0 million per other Rainbow measurements. Also, if the surviving or acquiring entity ceases to use “Masimo” as a company name and trademark following a change in control, all rights to the “Masimo” trademark will automatically be assigned to Masimo Labs. This could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over our then-current trading price. In addition, our requirement to assign all future improvements for non-vital signs to Masimo Labs could impede a change in control. Masimo Labs has conducted most of the research and development of Rainbow technology and we are dependent upon Masimo Labs to develop improvements to Rainbow technology. Masimo Labs has conducted the research and development of Rainbow technology. Although we expect Masimo Labs to continue its research and development activities related to Rainbow technology and specific noninvasive monitoring measurements, including 27 Table of Contents blood glucose and total hemoglobin, no assurance can be given that it will do so. In the event Masimo Labs does not continue to develop and improve Rainbow technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We will experience conflicts of interest with Masimo Labs with respect to business opportunities and other matters. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2007, our stockholders owned approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Masimo Labs and we believe that as of January 3, 2009, a number of stockholders of Masimo Labs, including some of our executive officers and directors, continued to own shares of our common stock. In addition, Joe E. Kiani and Jack Lasersohn, members of our board of directors, are also members of the board of directors of Masimo Labs. Joe E. Kiani, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Masimo Labs. Due to the interrelated nature of Masimo Labs with us, conflicts of interest will arise with respect to transactions involving business dealings between us and Masimo Labs, potential acquisitions of businesses or products, development of products and technology, the sale of products, markets and other matters in which our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders may conflict with the best interests of the stockholders of Masimo Labs. We cannot assure you that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor, or that with respect to our transactions with Masimo Labs we will negotiate terms that are as favorable to us as if such transactions were with an unaffiliated third party. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results and we may not maintain our recent profitability in the future. We incurred net losses attributable to common stockholders in each year from our inception through 2004. Our net losses attributable to common stockholders were approximately $8.6 million, $15.4 million and $12.3 million in 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. We expect our expenses to increase as we continue to expand our research and development and sales and marketing activities. As a result, if we are unable to maintain or increase our revenue, we may incur net losses in the future. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations as a result of: • delays or interruptions in manufacturing and shipping of our products; • varying demand for and market acceptance of our technologies and products; • the effect of competing technological and market developments resulting in lower selling prices or significant promotional costs; • changes in the timing of product orders and the volume of sales to our OEM partners; • actions taken by group purchasing organizations, or GPOs; • delays in hospital conversions to our products; • declines in hospital patient census; • our legal expenses, particularly those related to litigation matters; • changes in our product or customer mix; • unanticipated delays or problems in the introduction of new products, including delays in obtaining clearance or approval from the FDA; • product recalls; and • high levels of returns and repairs. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. To respond to these and other factors, we may need to make business decisions that could result in our failure to meet financial expectations. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. Most of our expenses, including our employee compensation, inventory and debt repayment obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if our revenue for a particular period were below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Any revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results for the period. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. We depend on our OEM partners for a portion of our revenue. If they do not devote sufficient resources to the promotion of products that use Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, our business would be harmed. We are, and will continue to be, dependent upon our OEM partners for a portion of our revenue through their marketing, selling and distribution of certain of their products that incorporate Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. Although we expect that our OEM partners will accept and actively market, sell and distribute products that incorporate licensed Rainbow technology, they may 28 Table of Contents elect not, and they have no contractual obligation, to do so in the near future or at all. The failure of our OEM partners to successfully market, sell or distribute products incorporating these technologies, the termination of OEM agreements, the loss of OEM partners or the inability to enter into future OEM partnership agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend in part upon whether our OEM partners devote sufficient resources to the promotion of products that incorporate these technologies. These products may represent a relatively small percentage of business for some of our OEM partners and therefore they may have less incentive to promote these products rather than other products that do not incorporate these technologies; the desire and ability of our OEMs to commit these resources could be negatively impacted by the current turbulent and volatile economic turmoil. In addition, some of our OEM partners offer products that compete with ours. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our OEM partners will vigorously promote products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, or at all. If any of our OEM partners were to be acquired, we cannot assure you that an acquiring company would devote sufficient resources to promote products that incorporate technology we own or license. The loss of any large customer or any cancellation or delay of a significant purchase by a large customer could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. We also have a concentration of OEM, distribution and direct customers. If for any reason we were to lose our ability to sell to a specific group or class of customers, we would experience a significant reduction in revenue, which would adversely impact our operating results. Also, we cannot assure you that we will retain our current customers or groups of customers or that we will be able to attract and retain additional customers in the future. For the years ended January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007, one of our distributors represented 12% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenue. No distributors represented over 10% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our royalty agreement with Covidien provides for a royalty rate schedule that could decline over the term of the settlement agreement which could significantly harm our total sales and operating results. In fiscal 2008, our royalties from the Covidien settlement totaled $47.5 million. Because these royalty payments do not carry any significant cost, they result in significant improvements to our reported gross profit and operating income levels. As a result, any decline in royalties that we earn under the settlement agreement in the future will have a significant impact on our revenue, gross margins and operating income. Under the agreement, we earn royalties on Covidien’s total U.S.-based pulse oximetry sales. The royalty rate in 2006 was nearly 20% if averaged over the entire year. The royalty rate for fiscal 2007 declined to 15%. In 2008 and through the term of the royalty agreement, at least through March 14, 2011, the royalty rate is 13%, but may decline to 10%, subject to Covidien’s ability to develop new products that avoid some of our current patent coverage as negotiated in the settlement agreement. As a result, there is a significant financial risk to our operating income if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue and gross margins to offset the impact of declining royalty rates on sales of Covidien’s pulse oximetry products in the United States. If we fail to maintain relationships with GPOs, sales of our products would decline. Our ability to sell our products to U.S. hospitals depends in part on our relationships with GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate beneficial pricing arrangements and contracts, which are sometimes exclusive, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors. These negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, the GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely or unlikely to purchase our products. If a GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be prohibited from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. In the fiscal years ended January 3, 2009, December 29, 2007 and December 31, 2006, shipments of our pulse oximetry products related to GPOs were $132.1 million, $101.0 million and $66.6 million, respectively. Our failure to renew our contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position would likely suffer and our business would be harmed. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize enhanced or new products that remain competitive with new products or alternative techniques developed by others, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers, and our ability to grow our business would be impaired. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances, which places our products at risk of obsolescence. Our long-term success depends upon the development and successful commercialization of new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. The research and development process is time-consuming and costly and may not result in products or applications that we can successfully commercialize. In particular, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products for applications other than arterial blood oxygen saturation and pulse rate monitoring, including carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin monitoring. If we do not successfully adapt our products and applications both within and outside these measurements, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers. In addition, we may not be able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our 29 Table of Contents markets and continue to grow our business. Furthermore, one or more of our competitors may develop products that are substantially equivalent to our FDA-cleared products, or those of our OEM partners, whereby they may be able to use our products or those of our OEM partners, as predicate devices to more quickly obtain FDA clearance of their competing products. We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to develop products perceived as more effective or easier to use than ours or are more readily accepted, or offer their products at lower prices than we can, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face substantial competition from companies developing products that compete with our Masimo SET platform for use with third-party monitoring systems. We also face competition from companies currently marketing pulse oximetry monitors. One company, Covidien, currently holds a substantial share of the pulse oximetry market. Our revenue and profit are significantly smaller than our primary competitors. A number of the companies in the pulse oximetry market have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours, and have established stronger reputations with our target customers and built relationships with GPOs and worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Competition could result in reductions in the price of our products, fewer orders for our products, a reduction of our gross margins and a loss of our market share. Reliance on clinical studies is an important means of demonstrating the effectiveness of products in our industry. If clinical studies supporting our competitors’ products are perceived to be accurate and reliable, market acceptance and sales of our products could be adversely impacted and we could lose market share to our competitors. Our suppliers may not supply us with a sufficient amount of materials and components or materials and components of adequate quality. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers for key materials and components of our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions, and if we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions to customers. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the materials or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these materials or components will not increase. From time to time, there are industry-wide shortages of several electronic components that we use in our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions. We may experience delays in production of our products if we fail to identify alternate vendors for materials and components, or any parts supply is interrupted or reduced or there is a significant increase in production costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. We may be subject to claims that our employees have disclosed, or that we have used, trade secrets or other proprietary information of our employees’ former employers. Defending against these claims could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research and development or sales personnel could limit our ability to sell our existing products and develop new products and technologies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If product liability claims are brought against us, we could face substantial liability and costs. The manufacture and sale of products using Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology expose us to product liability claims and product recalls, including those that may arise from misuse, including but not limited to unauthorized off-label use, which is use of a device in a manner outside the measurement or measurements cleared by the FDA, or malfunction of, or design flaws or manufacturing defects in, our products or the use of our products with incompatible components or systems. Any losses that we may suffer from future liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our technology and products, together with the corresponding diversion of the attention of our key employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any product liability claims could require significant cost and management resources and may subject us to significant damages. We currently have product liability insurance that we believe to be adequate, but we cannot be certain that it will be sufficient to cover any or all damages or claims. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts to protect us against any product liability claims. Our failure to obtain and maintain FDA clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, would prevent us from commercializing our current or upgraded products in the United States, which could severely harm our business. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by filing a 510(k) pre-market notification, or pre-market approval, or PMA, through submitting a PMA application. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. We cannot assure you that the FDA will grant 510(k) clearance on a 30 Table of Contents timely basis, if at all, for new products or uses that we propose for Masimo SET or licensed Rainbow technology. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to six months, although it can take longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain and generally takes from one to three years or even longer. To date, the FDA has regulated pulse oximeters incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, and our sensors, cables and other products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology for pulse oximetry under the 510(k) process. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for all of our current products, these clearances may be revoked by the FDA at any time if safety or effectiveness problems develop with our devices. Furthermore, our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and be required to undergo the more burdensome PMA process. In that case, our ability to upgrade our products in a timely fashion could be limited. The withdrawal of existing 510(k) clearances or the inability to obtain new ones on a timely basis, or at all, could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our OEM partners to obtain required FDA clearances or approvals for products that incorporate our products or technologies could have a negative impact on our revenue. Our OEM partners will be required to obtain their own FDA clearances for products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology to market these products in the United States. We cannot assure you that the FDA clearances we have obtained will make it easier for our OEM partners to obtain clearances of products incorporating these technologies, or that the FDA will ever grant clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any future product incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology that our OEM partners propose to market. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Our products, along with the manufacturing processes and promotional activities for such products, are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with the QSR which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, component suppliers control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. Failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, discovery of previously unknown problems with our products (including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency), manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or failure to adequately respond to any FDA observations concerning these issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters or untitled letters issued by the FDA; • fines and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; • withdrawal or suspension of clearance or approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • product recall or seizure; • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be, or may not continue to be, in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We currently market and intend to continue to market our products internationally. Outside the United States, we can market a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among international jurisdictions and may require additional testing. The time required to obtain approval internationally may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely 31 Table of Contents basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. If we fail to receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a PMA approval. We may not be able to obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and we may make additional modifications in the future, some of which we may believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees with our conclusion and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Off-label promotion of our products or promotional claims deemed false or misleading could subject us to substantial penalties. Obtaining 510(k) clearance only permits us to promote our products for the uses specifically cleared by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use our products off-label because the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. Although we may request additional cleared indications for our current products, the FDA may deny those requests, require additional expensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared product as a condition of clearance. We must have adequate substantiation for our product performance claims. If the FDA determines that we or our OEM partners have promoted our products for off-label use or have made false or misleading or inadequately substantiated promotional claims, it could request that we or our OEM partners modify those promotional materials or take regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of our products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. However, any changes could make it more difficult for us to maintain or attain approval to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the Amendments, requires, among other things, that the FDA propose and ultimately implement regulations that will require manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from the FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. In addition, the Amendments will require us to, among other things, pay annual establishment registration fees to the FDA for each of our FDA-registered facilities. If we are unable to increase our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or maintain or establish arrangements with third parties to sell, market, manufacture and distribute our pulse oximetry and Rainbow technology products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have limited sales and marketing experience both in the United States and internationally and may not be successful in developing and implementing our business strategy. In addition, we currently have a small sales organization compared to many of our competitors. To increase our commercial capabilities, we need to: • increase our sales and marketing forces; 32 Table of Contents • continue to maintain domestic and international OEM partners; • ensure that distributors and OEM partners provide the technical and educational support customers need to use products incorporating Masimo SET and Rainbow technology successfully; • promote monitoring systems using Masimo SET and Rainbow technology so that sales of those systems and our sensors increase; and • be prepared to provide services, as necessary, to geographically dispersed users of monitoring systems using Masimo SET and Rainbow technology. Failure to accomplish any of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently plan to increase the size of our direct sales force to further market our products in the United States and internationally. Our sales force will be competing with the experienced and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our competitors. Increasing our direct sales capabilities will be expensive and time consuming. We may not be able to further develop this capacity on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities, we will need to continue to contract with third parties to market and sell our approved products in the United States and internationally. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenue could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other sales and marketing arrangements with other companies, any revenue received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. If we are unable to maintain adequate sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to be profitable. If we are unable to manufacture an adequate supply of our products, we could lose customers and our revenue and growth could be limited. Our anticipated growth may strain our ability to manufacture an increasingly large supply of our products. Manufacturing facilities often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we cannot scale our manufacturing operations appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we have underestimated our future growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate and plan for significant growth, which we may not be able to effectively manage. Both domestically and internationally, we expect to rapidly expand our operations and our research and development, product development, sales, marketing and administrative organizations. This growth and activity will likely result in new and increased responsibilities for management and place a significant strain upon our operating and financial systems and resources. To accommodate our expected growth and compete effectively, we will be required to improve our current infrastructure, including information systems, as well as create additional processes, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. We also may need to expand our manufacturing resources. We cannot be certain that our personnel, infrastructure, financial systems, processes, procedures, asset management, facilities and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage our growth could impede our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture our products at two locations. Any disruption in these manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, we have relied on our manufacturing facilities in Irvine, California and Mexicali, Mexico. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. Earthquakes are of particular significance since our Irvine, California facility is located in an earthquake-prone area. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods and similar events. In the event that one of our facilities was affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to our other manufacturing facility. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are forced to seek alternative facilities, we may incur additional costs and we may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and, therefore, may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and results of operations. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and 33 Table of Contents our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may choose to add new manufacturing capabilities in either our existing facilities or in new facilities throughout the world. If we expand our worldwide manufacturing locations, there can be no assurance that this expansion will occur without implementation difficulties, or at all, or that such expansion will ultimately lower our overall cost of production. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Joe E. Kiani, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key officers. We are also heavily dependent on our engineers and field sales team, including sales representatives and clinical specialists. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management, engineers and field sales team, and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel. Competition for senior management, engineers and field sales personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of members of our key personnel could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and introduction of our products. In general, our officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice for any reason. In some specific situations, officers who signed a severance agreement, have agreed to provide the company up to six months of notice in the event they elect to terminate their employment for any reason. We carry key person life insurance on only Mr. Kiani, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Masimo Labs. Mr. Kiani devotes most of his time to us. Existing or future acquisitions of businesses could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we fail to integrate the acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or if we discover previously undisclosed liabilities. In order to expand our products and technology platform, we have acquired four businesses since our inception and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. Successful acquisitions depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; and • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities that we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state health care laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with these laws. Although we do not provide health care services or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, health care regulation by federal and state governments will impact our business. Health care fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws potentially applicable to our operations include, but are not limited to: • the Federal Health Care Programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration intended to induce the purchase, order or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which established federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or 34 Table of Contents services, as well as imposed certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payers, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain health information. We have certain arrangements with hospitals that may be affected by these laws. For instance, under our standard customer arrangements, we provide hospitals with free pulse oximetry monitoring devices in exchange for their agreement to purchase future pulse oximetry sensor requirements from us. In addition, we occasionally provide our customers with rebates in connection with their annual purchases. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with applicable federal and state health care laws, one or more of these arrangements may not meet the Federal Anti-Kickback Law’s safe harbor requirements, which may result in increased scrutiny by government authorities that are responsible for enforcing these laws. There can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any of such laws or other similar governmental regulations to which we are directly or indirectly subject, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. We face environmental and personal injury liabilities related to certain hazardous materials used in our operations. Our manufacturing processes involve the use, generation and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, including silicone adhesives, solder and solder paste, sealants, epoxies and various solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone, acetone and isopropyl alcohol. As a result, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. Future environmental laws may significantly affect our operations because, for instance, our manufacturing processes may be required to be altered, which may increase our manufacturing costs. In our research and manufacturing activities, we use, and our employees, may be exposed to, materials that are hazardous to human health, safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. The risk of accidental injury, including to our employees, or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any such liability could exceed our reserves. Although we maintain general liability insurance, we do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities. If an enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action on terms favorable to us. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a portion of our net sales from international operations. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, 25.1%, 23.6% and 22.6%, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from our international operations. In addition, we purchase a portion of our raw materials and components on the international market. The sale and shipping of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of materials and components from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and we would be exposed to potentially significant penalties for non-compliance. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; • loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; 35 Table of Contents • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • longer payment cycles; and • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new international business structure may not result in expected operational benefits. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we implemented a new international business structure designed to better serve and support our growing international business. By centralizing our international operations, including sales management, marketing, customer support, planning, logistics and administrative functions, we believe we will be able to develop a more efficient and scalable international organization – capable of being even more responsive to the business needs of our international customers—all under one centralized management structure. We commenced the implementation of an international business structure to align our operations with the business needs of our non-U.S. customers and we believe that we may, in the long run, also benefit from certain operational benefits as well as a lower overall tax rate. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will produce any anticipated operational benefits or provide an overall lower tax rate. Realization of the expected benefits will depend on a number of factors, including our future business results and profitability, the effectiveness and timing of our implementation of our international business structure, changes in tax law and the geographic composition of pre-tax income. Our operations may be adversely impacted by our exposure to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. We market our products in certain foreign markets through our subsidiaries and other international distributors. The related sales agreements may provide for payments in a foreign currency. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. When the United States dollar weakens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the United States dollar, may adversely affect our results of operations. Our primary foreign currency exchange rate exposures are with the Euro, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency exchange rate risks and therefore believe our exposure to these risks may be higher than if we entered into hedging transactions, including forward exchange contracts or similar instruments. If we decide in the future to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to attempt to reduce the risk related to foreign currency exchange rates, these contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts. In addition, these types of contracts may themselves cause financial harm to us and have inherent levels of counterparty risk over which we would have no control. Our international operations could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. Inadequate levels of coverage or reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for our products, or for procedures using our products, may cause our revenue to decline. Sales of our products depend in part on the reimbursement and coverage policies of governmental and private health care payers. The ability of our health care provider customers, including hospitals, to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, or for the procedures in which our products are used, may impact our customers’ purchasing decisions. Therefore, our customers’ inability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products would have a material adverse effect on our business. 36 Table of Contents Third-party payers have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, health care policies intended to curb rising health care costs. These policies include, among others: • controls on reimbursement for health care services and price controls on medical products and services; • limitations on coverage and reimbursement for new medical technologies and procedures; and • the introduction of managed care and prospective payment systems in which health care providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed reimbursement amount per person or per procedure. These trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our current products and product candidates and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes in the health care industry could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Changes in the health care industry in the United States and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct our business. Significantly, the new administration and Congressional and state leaders have expressed a strong desire to reform the U.S. health care system. Included in this reform could be laws that narrow Medicare coverage or reduce reimbursement levels for healthcare services or items provided by physicians and hospitals. Furthermore, many private payors look to Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies in setting their coverage policies and reimbursement amounts such that federal reforms could influence the private sector as well. Finally, many states also may attempt to reform their Medicaid programs such that either coverage for certain items or services may be narrowed or reimbursement for them could be reduced. These healthcare reforms may adversely affect our business. Consistent with or in addition to Congressional or state reforms, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs could change its current policies that affect reimbursement for our products. CMS determined in 2007 that certain uses of pulse oximetry monitoring are eligible for separate Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting when no separately payable hospital outpatient services are reported on the same date of service. Each year, however, CMS re-examines the reimbursement rates for hospital inpatient and outpatient and physician office settings and could either increase or decrease the reimbursement rate for procedures utilizing our products Overall, we are unable to predict when legislation or regulation that affects our business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any such legislation, regulation or policies that affect the coverage and reimbursement of our current or future products, or the procedures utilizing our current or future products, could cause our sales to decrease and, as a result, our revenue to decline. In addition, the requirements or restrictions imposed on us or our products may change, either as a result of administratively adopted policies or regulations or as a result of the enactment of new laws. Such changes are particular possibilities in light of the 2008 elections in the United States. There may be heightened scrutiny by federal and state regulators and legislators of the FDA’s device approval process, the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed devices, and physician payments and promotional activities by manufacturers. Any new regulations or statutory provisions could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials, and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance. Further, our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of reimbursement for our products through government-sponsored health care payment systems and other third-party payers. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary by country. These systems are often subject to the same pressures to curb rising health care costs and control health care expenditures as those in the United States. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their health care delivery and payment systems. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payers outside of the United States are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the United States may be adversely affected. Our ongoing antitrust litigation against Tyco Healthcare (currently Covidien) could result in significant additional costs and further divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In May 2002, we filed a lawsuit against Tyco Healthcare, parent company of Nellcor, in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging damage to our business as a result of the anti-competitive business practices of Tyco Healthcare in connection with its Nellcor pulse oximetry brand in violation of federal antitrust laws. Specifically, we alleged that we had incurred damages as a result of a series of illegal exclusionary and anti-competitive acts by Tyco Healthcare that were designed to maintain its monopoly in the pulse oximetry market. In March 2005, a jury found that Tyco Healthcare’s use of sole-source contracts, product bundling and market share-based compliance pricing contracts, among other conduct violated the federal antitrust laws and awarded damages on that basis. Tyco Healthcare filed post-trial motions requesting that the District Court either override the jury decision or grant a new trial. In March 2006, the District Court upheld a portion of the jury verdict and vacated the remaining verdict. In addition, the District Court vacated the jury’s damages award and granted Tyco Healthcare a new trial on damages. After a retrial of damages, on July 2, 2007, the District Court entered its final judgment, awarding us damages which were trebled as is mandatory under federal antitrust law to $43.5 million and denying our 37 Table of Contents request for a permanent injunction with respect to the Tyco Healthcare business practices found to be anti-competitive. We and Tyco Healthcare each filed a notice of appeal from the judgment. We filed our opening brief on December 17, 2007 with the United States Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. On December 27, 2007, the Consumer Federation of America and the Medical Device Manufacturers Association filed an Amicus brief supporting us. Tyco filed its opposition and appeal brief on March 3, 2008. A group of law professors filed an Amicus brief supporting Tyco on March 10, 2008. We filed our response and reply brief on May 19, 2008. The Consumer Federation of America and the Medical Device Manufacturers Association filed an additional Amicus brief in support of us on May 29, 2008. Tyco filed its second appeal brief on July 17, 2008. We are seeking reinstatement of the jury’s verdict on bundling and an affirmance of the liability findings concerning sole-source and market share-based compliance contracts. We are also asking the appellate court to increase the amount of damages awarded by the trial court. Oral argument took place on December 8, 2008. Even if we are ultimately awarded damages in this litigation, the amount will be subject to a 50% legal fee contingency agreement, in which case we would receive 50% of the net (of costs) proceeds from any award. We believe that Covidien continues to enter into sole-source contracts, product bundling agreements and market share-based agreements. In bundling agreements, the customer is able to obtain discounts on unrelated products when they purchase Covidien pulse oximeters for most of their pulse oximetry needs. Co-marketing agreements also provide significant impediments to competition in that Covidien pays large patient monitoring companies to integrate Covidien pulse oximetry products into their products. Continued litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive any cash award or any equitable relief from the litigation. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. To raise capital, we may issue additional securities, including shares, debt or equity-linked debt, which may dilute our existing stockholders and depress our stock price. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet our requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through financings or borrowings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any issuance of equity securities or convertible debt or other equity-linked securities to raise financing could: • cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our security holders at the time of the issuance; • cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; • subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage, including a reduction in our ability to obtain financing or an increase in the cost of any financing we obtain; • subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. Securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. These rights, preferences and privileges may include, among others, dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights and liquidation rights. As a result, the rights of holders of our common stock will be subject to, and could be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock or other senior securities that may be issued in the future. We do not intend to seek stockholder approval for any such security issuance unless required by applicable law or regulation or the terms of existing securities. In addition, any financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, or if the funds are not available to us, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or technologies, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition and investors’ confidence in us could be materially and adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner and meet our reporting obligations in their entirety could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC, or Nasdaq, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to evaluate and provide a management report of our systems of internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We have dedicated, and we expect to continue to dedicate, significant management, financial and other resources in connection with maintaining compliance with Section 404 based on the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. These efforts include reviewing our existing internal control structure and performing system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation). As a result of these 38 Table of Contents ongoing activities, we may either hire or outsource additional personnel to expand and strengthen our finance function. In addition, during the course of the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully maintain the certification requirements of Section 404 or that our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide the attestation report required under the regulations. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Our failure to maintain the requirements of Section 404 may subject us to investigations by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or Nasdaq, and sanctions. As a result, our failure to maintain the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock, and adversely affect investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets for financing. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may affect how we conduct our business and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices, or the interpretation of them by the SEC or other regulatory bodies, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the adoption of new rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. From December 30, 2007 to January 3, 2009, our closing stock price ranged from $22.04 to $41.95.You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors, in addition to the other risk factors identified above, that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price, many of which we cannot control, include but are not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • our inability to raise additional capital as needed; • concern as to the efficacy of our products; • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team or our Board of Directors; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. In particular, the current decline of the financial markets and related factors beyond our control, including the credit and mortgage crisis in both the U.S. and worldwide, may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. 39 Table of Contents As of January 3, 2009, our current directors and executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 12.1% of our outstanding common stock. Subject to any fiduciary duties owed to our other stockholders under Delaware law, the stockholders may be able to exercise a significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have some control over our management and policies. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your best interests. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. In addition, these stockholders, some of whom have representatives sitting on our board of directors, could use their voting influence to maintain our existing management and directors in office, delay or prevent changes in control of us, or support or reject other management and board proposals that are subject to stockholder approval, such as amendments to our employee stock plans and approvals of significant financing transactions. You could experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of subsequent exercises of our outstanding options or the grant of future equity awards by us. As of January 3, 2009, an aggregate of 8,681,630 shares of our common stock were reserved for future issuance under our three equity incentive plans, 7,329,474 of which were subject to options outstanding as of that date at a weighted average exercise price of $15.97 per share. To the extent outstanding options are exercised, our existing stockholders may incur dilution. We rely heavily on equity awards to motivate current employees and to attract new employees. The grant of future equity awards by us to our employees and other service providers may further dilute our stockholders. Future resales of our common stock, including those by our insiders, may cause our stock price to decline. As of January 3, 2009, there were 57,326,527 shares of our common stock outstanding, including 3,287,494 shares sold by us and 10,416,626 shares sold by our selling stockholders in our initial public offering, or IPO, in August 2007. A significant portion of our shares of common stock outstanding prior to our IPO that were not sold by selling stockholders became eligible for sale in the public market on February 4, 2008 upon expiration of lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our IPO, although as of January 3, 2009, 5,856,989 of these shares were held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Rule 144, as of that date. A large portion of our outstanding shares are held by a small number of persons and investment funds. Resale by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares, announcements of the proposed resale of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that substantial resale may be made, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of 318,562 shares of common stock at January 3, 2009 have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders from time to time. Certain of our directors and executive officers have entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans pursuant to which they have sold and will continue to sell shares of our common stock. Generally, these sales require public filings. Actual or potential sales by these insiders, including those under a pre-arranged Rule 10b5-1 trading plan, could be viewed negatively by the market and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In December 2007, we registered an aggregate of 11,218,285 shares reserved under our equity plans under a Registration Statement on Form S-8 and we anticipate filing one or more additional Registration Statements on Form S-8 to register additional shares reserved under our equity plans. All shares issued pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions on our affiliates under Rule 144. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, prevent attempts to replace or remove current management and reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. As a result, without further stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three year terms, with one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. A staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. An 40 Table of Contents “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in the Delaware General Corporation Law. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan. Under the stockholder rights plan if any person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, subject to a number of exceptions set forth in the plan, all of our stockholders other than the acquiring person will receive a right to purchase shares of our common stock at a price of $136.00 per share. Our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover attempt and make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, without the approval of our board of directors, you may not have the opportunity to sell your shares to a potential acquirer of us at a premium over prevailing market prices. This could reduce the market price of our common stock. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management and key employees will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. Prior to August 2007, we operated as a private concern. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our people, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our stock, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, business prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Securities analysts may not cover our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business or the pulse oximetry market. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, recently adopted rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks, has led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. As long as we have a smaller market capitalization, it may be difficult for us to attract independent financial analysts who will cover our common stock, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 