ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks comes to fruition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our Masimo SET platform and related products. If this technology and the related products do not continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the success and market acceptance of our proprietary Masimo Signal Extraction Technology, or Masimo SET. Currently, our primary product offerings are based on the Masimo SET platform. Continued market acceptance of products incorporating Masimo SET will depend upon our ability to continue to provide evidence to the medical community that our products are cost-effective and provide significantly improved performance compared to conventional pulse oximeters. Health care providers that currently have significant investments in competitive pulse oximetry products may be reluctant to purchase our products. If hospitals and other health care providers do not believe our Masimo SET platform to be cost-effective, more accurate or reliable, they may not buy our products in sufficient quantities to enable us to be profitable. If we are unable to achieve additional market acceptance of our core technology or products incorporating Masimo SET, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. We rely on patent protection, trade secrets, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the claims included in our patents. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual rights with the third parties that license technology to us to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and technology, there is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, or OEM partners, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Our common law trademarks provide less protection than our registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling certain products. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, searching for existing intellectual property rights may not reveal important intellectual property and our competitors may also have filed for patent protection, which is not as yet a matter of public knowledge, or claimed trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: • increase the cost of our products; • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; • force us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, the terms of which may not be acceptable to us; • require us to indemnify third parties pursuant to contracts in which we have agreed to provide indemnification to such parties for intellectual property infringement claims; • divert the attention of our management; and • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until the litigation is resolved. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. We believe competitors may currently be violating and may in the future violate our proprietary rights, and we may bring additional litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from the implementation of our business strategy. We believe that the success of our business depends, in significant part, on obtaining patent protection for our products and technology, defending our patents once obtained and preserving our trade secrets. We were previously involved in significant litigation to protect our patent position and may be required to engage in further litigation. In 2006, we settled a costly, six-year lawsuit against Mallinckrodt, Inc., now a part of Covidien Ltd. (formerly Tyco Healthcare), and one of its subsidiaries, Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc., in which we claimed that Nellcor was infringing certain of our pulse oximetry signal processing patents. We believe that other competitors of ours, including some of our OEM partners, may be infringing at least one of our patents. Our failure to pursue any potential claim could result in the loss of our proprietary rights and harm our position in the marketplace. Therefore, we may be forced to pursue litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot be certain that we will have the required financial resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect these rights in the future. In addition, any future litigation could result in the diversion of management’s attention from the implementation of our business strategy and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. Some of our products, including those based on licensed Rainbow technology, are in development or have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products that have been recently introduced, including those based on Rainbow technology, a technology that we license, may not be accepted in the market. Our first product incorporating licensed Rainbow technology was made commercially available in September 2005. Accordingly, we do not know to what degree the market will accept these products, if at all. Even if our customers recognize the benefits of our products, we cannot assure you that our customers will purchase them in quantities sufficient for us to be successful. We will need to invest in significant sales and marketing resources to achieve market acceptance of these products with no assurance of success. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceived effectiveness of our products; • cost of our products; • perceived advantages over competing products; 23 Table of Contents • introduction and acceptance of competing products or technologies; and • obtaining the required domestic and international regulatory approvals for our products under development. In order for any of these products to be accepted, we must prove that they are effective and commercially beneficial. Even if customers accept these products, this acceptance may not translate into sales if our competitors develop similar products that our customers prefer. If our products do not gain market acceptance or if our customers prefer our competitors’ products, our potential growth could be limited, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, or MDR, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In addition, all manufacturers placing medical devices in European Union markets are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the relevant authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. We may experience events that may require reporting to the FDA pursuant to the MDR regulations. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. Our products have been, and may be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may initiate certain voluntary recalls involving our products in the future. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. If we determine that certain of those recalls do not require notification of the FDA, the FDA may disagree with our determinations and require us to report those actions as recalls. Much of our growth may come from the introduction and sale of new products, which may result in a greater frequency of recalls. From our inception through December 29, 2007, we initiated three voluntary recalls of our products, none of which was material. Each of these recalls was reported to the FDA within the appropriate regulatory timeframes. On July 31, 2007, we determined to initiate a voluntary recall of our Rad-9 pulse oximeter, a standalone bedside pulse oximeter product, sales of which represented less than 0.6% and 0.3% of our product revenue in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In accordance with its original design and similar to other pulse oximeter devices, the Rad-9 gives a visual alarm if there is a sensor fault; under other circumstances, the Rad-9 gives both a visual and audio alarm. In late 2006, we sent notice to owners of the Rad-9 that a free upgrade was available to add an audio alarm to the Rad-9 when a sensor fault is detected. We have now determined to voluntarily recall the Rad-9 to implement this upgrade. We do not believe that a non-upgraded Rad-9 poses a significant risk to health. We decided to voluntarily recall the Rad-9 because we believe it has the possibility of improving the care of patients. This decision follows a customer report that an elderly patient, who may have damaged her pulse oximeter sensor, had died after removing her tracheostomy tube. Based on what is currently known, the Rad-9 appears to have been operating in accordance with its specifications. We submitted an MDR with the FDA on this event on August 3, 2007. As of December 29, 2007, we estimate that the remaining total costs resulting from this voluntary recall will be approximately $175,000, although this is an estimate and the actual cost may differ. Any future recall could result in a diversion of management resources, substantial cost and negative publicity, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to commercialize products that incorporate Masimo SET or Rainbow technology is limited. In May 1998, we created a newly-formed entity, Masimo Laboratories, Inc., or Masimo Labs, and provided it rights to use Masimo SET to commercialize non-vital signs monitoring applications while we retained the rights to Masimo SET to commercialize vital signs monitoring applications. On May 2, 1998, we entered into a cross-licensing agreement with Masimo Labs, which has been amended several times, most recently in an Amended and Restated Cross-Licensing Agreement, effective January 1, 2007, or the Cross-Licensing Agreement. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we granted Masimo Labs: • an exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET owned by us, including all improvements on this technology, for the measurement of non-vital signs parameters and to develop and sell devices incorporating Masimo SET for monitoring non-vital signs parameters in any product market in which a product is intended to be used by a patient or pharmacist rather than by a professional medical caregiver, which we refer to as the Labs Market, and • a non-exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET for measurement of vital signs in the Labs Market. Non-vital signs parameters consist of body fluid constituents other than vital signs parameters, including but not limited to carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, blood glucose, total hemoglobin and bilirubin. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we are only permitted to sell devices utilizing Masimo SET for the measurement of non-vital signs parameters in markets where the product is intended to be used by a professional medical caregiver, including but not limited to hospital caregivers and emergency medical services, or EMS, facility caregivers, rather than by a patient or pharmacist, which we refer to as the Masimo Market. Accordingly, our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET is limited. In particular, our inability to expand beyond the Masimo Market may impair our growth and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we have licensed from Masimo Labs the right to make and distribute products in the Masimo Market that utilize Rainbow technology for the measurement of carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation, and total hemoglobin, which includes hematocrit. As a result, the opportunity to expand the market for our products incorporating Rainbow technology is limited, which could limit our revenue and impair our growth. We will be required to pay Masimo Labs for the right to use certain improvements to Masimo SET that we develop. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, when we develop improvements to Masimo SET for the non-invasive measurement of non-vital signs parameters, we would be required to assign these developments to Masimo Labs and then license the technology back from Masimo Labs in consideration for a license fee and royalty obligations to Masimo Labs. Therefore, any improvement to this technology would be treated as if it had been developed exclusively by Masimo Labs. In addition, we will not be reimbursed by Masimo Labs for our expenses relating to the development of any such technology. As a result of these terms, we may not generate any revenue from the further development of Masimo SET for the measurement of non-vital signs parameters, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that the Cross-Licensing Agreement is terminated for any reason, or Masimo Labs grants a license to Rainbow technology to a third party, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Masimo Labs owns all of the proprietary rights to Rainbow technology developed with our proprietary Masimo SET for products intended to be used in the Labs Market, and all rights for any non-vital signs parameter for which we do not exercise an option pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement. In addition, Masimo Labs has the right to terminate the Cross-Licensing Agreement or grant licenses covering Rainbow technology to third parties if we breach certain terms of the agreement, including failure to meet our minimum royalty payment obligations or failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop or market products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology. If we lose our exclusive license to Rainbow technology, we may not be able to develop comparable technology or license similar technology on commercially favorable terms or at all, and we would lose the ability to prevent others from making, using, selling or importing products using Rainbow technology in our market. As a result, we would likely be subject to increased competition within our market, and Masimo Labs or competitors who obtain a license to Rainbow technology from Masimo Labs would be able to offer related products. We may not be able to commercialize our products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology cost-effectively or successfully. It costs us more to make products that incorporate Rainbow technology than products without Rainbow technology due to increased production costs in addition to the royalties that we must pay to Masimo Labs. In order to successfully commercialize these products, we must be able to pass these higher costs on to the market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell products incorporating Rainbow technology at a price the market is willing to accept. If we cannot commercialize our products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology successfully, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to be profitable, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We are required to pay royalties to Masimo Labs for all products sold that contain Rainbow technology, including certain annual minimum royalty payments and this may impact our gross margins. The Cross-Licensing Agreement requires us to pay Masimo Labs a royalty for all products that we sell which include their proprietary Rainbow technology. This includes hand-held, table-top and multi-parameter products that incorporate licensed Rainbow technology. Beginning in 2009, for hospital contracts where we place equipment and enter into a sensor contract, we will pay a royalty to Masimo Labs on the total sensor contract revenues based on the ratio of Rainbow enabled devices to total devices. The agreement also requires that we provide to Masimo Labs, at its request, up to 10% of our annual board and sensor production volume at our total manufactured cost. In addition to these specific royalty and product obligations, our Cross-Licensing Agreement requires that we pay Masimo Labs specific annual minimum royalty payments. While the payment of royalties for enabled Rainbow parameters should not have a negative impact on our overall margins, the minimum annual royalties will have a negative impact to the extent that we do not generate sufficient Rainbow product revenues to offset the minimum royalties owed to Masimo Labs. In addition, the requirement for us to provide Masimo Labs with up to 10% of our board and sensor production at our manufactured cost will, if requested by Masimo Labs, have a negative impact on our gross margins. Rights provided to Masimo Labs in the Cross-Licensing Agreement may impede a change in control of our company. In the event we undergo a change in control, which, as defined in the Cross-Licensing Agreement, includes the resignation or termination of Joe E. Kiani from his position of Chief Executive Officer of either Masimo or Masimo Labs, we are required to immediately pay a $2.5 million fee to exercise an option to license technology developed by Masimo Labs for use in blood glucose monitoring. Additionally, our per product royalties payable to Masimo Labs will become subject to specified minimums, and the minimum aggregate annual royalties for all licensed Rainbow parameters payable to Masimo Labs will increase to up to $15.0 million for carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation, total hemoglobin and blood glucose, plus up to $2.0 million per other Rainbow parameters. Also, if the surviving or acquiring entity ceases to use “Masimo” as a company name and trademark following a change in control, all rights to the “Masimo” trademark will automatically be assigned to Masimo Labs. This could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices. In addition, our requirement to assign all future improvements for non-vital signs to Masimo Labs could impede a change in control. Masimo Labs has conducted most of the research and development of Rainbow technology and we are dependent upon Masimo Labs to develop improvements to Rainbow technology. Masimo Labs has conducted the research and development of Rainbow technology. Although we expect Masimo Labs to continue its research and development activities related to Rainbow technology and specific non-invasive monitoring parameters, including blood glucose and total hemoglobin, no assurance can be given that it will do so. In the event Masimo Labs does not continue to develop and improve Rainbow technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We will experience conflicts of interest with Masimo Labs with respect to business opportunities and other matters. As of December 29, 2007, our stockholders owned approximately 99.96% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Masimo Labs. In addition, Joe E. Kiani and Jack Lasersohn, members of our board of directors, are also members of the board of directors of Masimo Labs. Joe E. Kiani, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Masimo Labs. Due to the interrelated nature of Masimo Labs with us, conflicts of interest will arise with respect to transactions involving business dealings between us and Masimo Labs, potential acquisitions of businesses or products, development of products and technology, the sale of products, markets and other matters in which our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders may conflict with the best interests of the stockholders of Masimo Labs. We cannot assure you that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor, or that with respect to our transactions with Masimo Labs we will negotiate terms that are as favorable to us as if such transactions were with an unaffiliated third party. Our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict and, prior to 2005, we had a history of net losses. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results and we may not maintain our recent profitability in the future. We incurred net losses attributable to common stockholders in each year from our inception through 2004. Our net losses attributable to common stockholders were approximately $8.6 million, $15.4 million and $12.3 million in 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. We expect our expenses to increase as we expand our research and development and sales and marketing activities. As a result, if we are unable to maintain or increase our revenue, we may incur net losses and negative cash flows in the future. 26 Table of Contents Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations as a result of: • delays or interruptions in manufacturing and shipping of our products; • varying demand for and market acceptance of our technology and products; • the effect of competing technological and market developments resulting in lower selling prices or significant promotional costs; • changes in the timing of product orders and the volume of sales to our OEM partners; • actions taken by group purchasing organizations, or GPOs; • delays in hospital conversions to our products; • our legal expenses, particularly those related to litigation matters; • changes in our product or customer mix; • unanticipated delays or problems in the introduction of new products, including delays in obtaining clearance or approval from the FDA; • product recalls; and • high levels of returns and repairs. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. To respond to these and other factors, we may need to make business decisions that could result in failure to meet financial expectations. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, inventory and debt repayment obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if our revenue for a particular period were below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Any revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results for the period. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. We depend on our OEM partners for a portion of our revenue. If they do not devote sufficient resources to the promotion of products that use Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, our business would be harmed. We are, and will continue to be, dependent upon our OEM partners for a portion of our revenue through their marketing, selling and distribution of certain of their products that incorporate Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. Although we expect that our OEM partners will accept and actively market, sell and distribute products that incorporate licensed Rainbow technology, they may elect not to do so in the near future or at all. The failure of our OEM partners to successfully market, sell or distribute products incorporating these technologies, the termination of OEM agreements, the loss of OEM partners or the inability to enter into future OEM partnership agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend in part upon whether our OEM partners devote sufficient resources to the promotion of products that incorporate these technologies. These products may represent a relatively small percentage of business for some of our OEM partners. In addition, some of our OEM partners offer products that compete with ours. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our OEM partners will vigorously promote products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. If any of our OEM partners were to be acquired, we cannot assure you that an acquiring company would devote sufficient resources to promote products that incorporate technology we own or license. The loss of any large customer or any cancellation or delay of a significant purchase by a large customer could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. For the year ended December 29, 2007, one customer represented 11.0% of our total revenues. We also have a concentration of OEM, distribution and direct customers. If, for any reason, we were to lose our ability to sell to a specific group or class of customers, we would experience a significant reduction in revenues. This would, in turn, adversely impact our operating results because we may not be able to react quickly enough to reduce our operating expenses. Also, we cannot assure you that we will retain our current customers or groups of customers or that we will be able to attract and retain additional customers. 27 Table of Contents Our royalty agreement with Nellcor provides for a declining royalty rate schedule over the term of the settlement agreement which, if not offset by other revenues and sources of income, could significantly harm our total sales and operating results. In fiscal 2007, our royalties from the Nellcor settlement totaled $56.1 million. Because these royalty payments do not carry any significant cost, they result in significant improvements to our reported gross profit and operating income levels. As a result, any decline in royalties that we earn under this agreement will have a significant impact on our revenues, gross margins and operating income. Under terms of the agreement, we earn royalties on Nellcor’s total U.S. based pulse oximetry sales. The royalty rate in 2006 was nearly 20% if averaged over the entire year. The royalty rates for 2007 declined to 15%. In 2008 and through the term of the royalty agreement, at least through March 14, 2011, the royalty rates will decline to either 10% or 13%, subject to Nellcor’s ability to develop new products that avoid some of our current patent coverage as negotiated in the settlement agreement. As a result of these declining royalty rates in 2007 and beyond, there is a significant financial risk to our operating income if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues and gross margins to offset the impact of declining royalty rates on sales of Nellcor’s U.S. pulse oximetry products. If we fail to maintain relationships with GPOs, sales of our products would decline. Our ability to sell our products to U.S. hospitals depends in part on our relationships with GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes exclusive, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. In 2006 and 2007, revenue from the sale of our pulse oximetry products related to GPOs amounted to $66.6 million and $101.0 million, respectively. In the future, if we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position would likely suffer. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize enhanced or new products that remain competitive with new products or alternative techniques developed by others, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers, and our ability to achieve growth would be impaired. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances, which places our products at risk of obsolescence. Our long-term success depends upon the development and successful commercialization of new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. The research and development process is time-consuming and costly and may not result in products or applications that we can successfully commercialize. In particular, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products for applications other than arterial blood oxygen saturation and pulse rate monitoring, including carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin monitoring. If we do not successfully adapt our products and applications both within and outside these parameters, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers. In addition, we may not be able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our markets and continue to grow our business. Furthermore, one or more of our competitors may develop products that are substantially equivalent to our FDA-cleared products, or those of our OEM partners, whereby they may be able to use our products or those of our OEM partners, as predicate devices to more quickly obtain FDA clearance of their competing products. We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to develop products perceived as more effective or easier to use than ours or are more readily accepted, or offer their products at lower prices than we can, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face substantial competition from companies developing products that compete with our Masimo SET platform for use with third-party monitoring systems. We also face competition from companies currently marketing pulse oximetry monitors. One company in particular, Nellcor, a subsidiary of Tyco Healthcare, currently holds a substantial share of the pulse oximetry market. Our revenues and profit are significantly smaller than our primary competitors. A number of the companies in the pulse oximetry market have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours, and have established reputations with our target customers, as well as worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Competition could result in price reductions, fewer orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Reliance on clinical studies is an important means of demonstrating the effectiveness of products in our industry. We are aware of a number of clinical and laboratory studies with results that are less favorable to the Masimo SET platform than those contained in the over 100 independent clinical and laboratory studies that validate our technology. We believe that these studies either (i) lack independence because they were funded by competing companies evaluated in the studies or were conducted by employees of such companies, or (ii) lack objectivity because of the absence of clinical procedures and protocols required to ensure objective and accurate results. If subsequent independent studies validate these studies or these studies are otherwise shown to be accurate, market acceptance and sales of our products could be adversely impacted and we could lose market share to our competitors. 28 Table of Contents Our suppliers may not supply us with a sufficient amount of materials and components or materials and components of adequate quality. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers for key materials and components of our non-invasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions, and if we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our non-invasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions to customers. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the materials or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these materials or components will not increase. From time to time, there are industry-wide shortages of several electronic components that we use in our non-invasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions. We may experience delays in production of our products if we fail to identify alternate vendors, or any parts supply is interrupted or reduced or there is a significant increase in production costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. We may be subject to claims that employees have disclosed, or that we have used, trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Defending against these claims could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research and development or sales personnel could limit our ability to sell our existing products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If product liability claims are brought against us, we could face substantial liability and costs. The manufacture and sale of products using Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology expose us to product liability claims and product recalls, including those that may arise from misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products or the use of our products with incompatible components or systems. Any losses that we may suffer from future liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our technology and products, together with the corresponding diversion of the attention of our key employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any product liability claims could require significant cost and management resources and may subject us to significant damages. We currently have product liability insurance that we believe to be adequate, but we cannot be certain that it will be sufficient to cover damages or claims. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts to protect us against any product liability claims. Our failure to obtain and maintain FDA clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, would prevent us from commercializing our current or upgraded products in the United States, which could severely harm our business. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance, by filing a 510(k) pre-market notification, or PMA approval, by filing a PMA application, from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. We cannot assure you that the FDA will grant 510(k) clearance on a timely basis, if at all, for new products or uses that we propose for the Masimo SET or licensed Rainbow technology. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to twelve months, although it can take longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain and generally takes from one to three years or even longer. To date, the FDA has regulated pulse oximeters incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, and our sensors, cables and other products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology for pulse oximetry under the 510(k) process. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for all of our current products, these clearances may be revoked by the FDA if safety or effectiveness problems develop with our devices. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance. Furthermore, our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and be required to undergo the more burdensome PMA approval process. If so, our ability to upgrade our products in a timely fashion could be limited. The withdrawal of existing 510(k) clearances or the inability to obtain new ones on a timely basis, or at all, could severely harm our business. The failure of our OEM partners to obtain FDA clearances or approvals could have a negative impact on our revenue. Our OEM partners will be required to obtain their own FDA clearances for products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology to market these products in the United States. We cannot assure you that the FDA clearances we have obtained will make 29 Table of Contents it easier for our OEM partners to obtain clearances of products incorporating these technologies, or that the FDA will ever grant clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any future product incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology that our OEM partners propose to market. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Our products, along with the manufacturing processes and promotional activities for such products, are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In particular we and our suppliers are required to comply with the quality system regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. Failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, discovery of previously unknown problems with our products (including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency), manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or failure to adequately respond to any FDA observations concerning these issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters or untitled letters; • fines and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; • withdrawal or suspension of clearance or approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • product recall or seizure; • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be, or may not continue to be, in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We currently market, and intend to continue to market, our products internationally. Outside the United States, we can market a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. If we fail to receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approval is obtained. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a PMA approval. We may not be able to obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and we may make additional modifications in the future, some of which we may believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Off-label promotion of our products or promotional claims deemed false or misleading could subject us to substantial penalties. Obtaining 510(k) clearance only permits us to promote our products for the uses cleared by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. Although we may request additional cleared indications for our current products, the FDA may deny those requests, require additional expensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared product as a condition of clearance. We must have adequate substantiation for our product performance claims. If the FDA determines that we or our OEM partners have promoted our products for off-label use, or have made false or misleading or inadequately substantiated promotional claims, it could request that we or our OEM partners modify those promotional materials or seek regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, last year Congress enacted, and the President signed into law, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the Amendments. This law requires, among other things, that the FDA propose, and ultimately implement, regulations that will require manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from the FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. In addition, the Amendments will require us to, among other things, pay annual establishment registration fees to the FDA for each of our FDA registered facilities. If we are unable to increase our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or maintain or establish arrangements with third parties to sell, market, manufacture and distribute our pulse oximetry and Rainbow technology products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have limited sales and marketing experience both in the United States and internationally and may not be successful in developing and implementing our business strategy. In addition, we currently have a small sales organization compared to many of our competitors. To increase our commercial success, we need to: • increase our sales and marketing force; • continue to maintain domestic and international OEM partners; • ensure that distributors and OEM partners provide the technical and educational support customers need to use products incorporating Masimo SET and Rainbow technology successfully; • promote monitoring systems using Masimo SET and Rainbow technology so that sales of those systems and, in turn, sales of our sensors increase; and • be prepared to provide services, as necessary, to geographically dispersed users of monitoring systems using Masimo SET and Rainbow technology. We currently plan to increase the size of our direct sales force to further market our products in the United States and internationally. Our sales force will be competing with the experienced and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our competitors. Increasing our direct sales capabilities is expensive and time consuming. We may not be able to further develop this capacity on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities, we will need to continue to contract with third parties to market and sell our approved products in the United States and internationally. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenue could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other sales and marketing arrangements with other companies, 31 Table of Contents any revenue received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. If we are unable to maintain adequate sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to be profitable. If we are unable to manufacture an adequate supply of our products, we could lose customers and our revenue and growth could be limited. Our anticipated growth may strain our ability to manufacture an increasingly large supply of our products. Manufacturing facilities often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we cannot scale our manufacturing operations appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we have underestimated our future growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate and plan for significant growth, which we may not be able to effectively manage. We expect to rapidly expand our operations and our research and development, product development, sales, marketing and administrative organizations. This growth and activity will likely result in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and place significant strain upon our operating and financial systems and resources. To accommodate our expected growth and compete effectively, we will be required to improve our information systems, create additional procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. We also may need to expand our manufacturing resources. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures, facilities and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage our growth could impede our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We manufacture our products at two locations. Any disruption in these manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have relied, to date, on our manufacturing facilities in Irvine, California and Mexicali, Mexico. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. Earthquakes are of particular significance since our Irvine, California facility is located in an earthquake-prone area. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods and similar events. In the event that one of our facilities was affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to another of our manufacturing facilities. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are forced to seek alternative facilities, we may incur additional costs and we may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and, therefore, may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and results of operations. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may choose to add new manufacturing capabilities in either our existing facilities or in new facilities throughout the world. If we expand our worldwide manufacturing locations, there can be no assurance that this expansion will occur without implementation difficulties or that such expansion will ultimately lower our overall cost of production. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Joe E. Kiani, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key officers. We are also heavily dependent on our engineers and field sales team, including sales representatives and clinical specialists. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management, engineers and field sales team, and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel. Competition for senior management, engineers and field sales personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of members of our key personnel could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and introduction of our products. Each of our officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. We carry key person life insurance on only Mr. Kiani, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Masimo Labs. Mr. Kiani devotes substantially all of his time to us. 32 Table of Contents Existing or future acquisitions of businesses could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we fail to integrate the acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or if we discover previously undisclosed liabilities. In order to expand our products and technology platform, we have acquired four businesses since our inception and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. Successful acquisitions depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; and • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities that we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state health care laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. Although we do not provide health care services, nor receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, health care regulation by federal and state governments will impact our business. Health care fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws potentially applicable to our operations include, but are not limited to: • the Federal Health Care Programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration intended to induce the purchase, order or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which established new federal crimes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services, as well as imposed certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payers, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain health information. We have certain arrangements with hospitals that may be affected by these laws. For instance, under our standard customer arrangements, we provide hospitals with free pulse oximetry monitoring devices in exchange for their agreement to purchase future pulse oximetry sensor requirements from us. In addition, we occasionally provide our customers with rebates in connection with their annual purchases. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with applicable federal and state health care laws, certain of these arrangements may not meet the Federal Anti-Kickback Law’s safe harbor requirements, which may result in increased scrutiny by government authorities having responsibility for enforcing these laws. There can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any of such laws or other similar governmental regulations to which we are directly or indirectly subject, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. 33 Table of Contents We face environmental and personal injury liabilities related to certain hazardous materials used in our operations. Our manufacturing processes involve the use, generation and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, including silicone adhesives, solder and solder paste, sealants, epoxies and various solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone, acetone and isopropyl alcohol. As such, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. Future environmental laws may significantly affect our operations because, for instance, our manufacturing processes may be required to be altered, thereby increasing our manufacturing costs. In our research and manufacturing activities, we use materials that are hazardous to human health, safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. The risk of accidental injury, including to employees, or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our reserves. Although we maintain general liability insurance, we do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities. If an enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We derive a portion of our net sales from operations in international markets. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, 19.2%, 22.6% and 23.6%, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from our international operations. In addition, we purchase a portion of our raw materials and components on the international market. The sale and shipping of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of materials and components from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and we would be exposed to potentially significant penalties for non-compliance. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; • loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; and • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We market our products in certain foreign markets through our subsidiaries and other international distributors. The related distribution agreements may provide for payments in a foreign currency. Accordingly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against international currencies, our U.S. dollar payments from such distributors, if any, will decrease. 34 Table of Contents Inadequate levels of coverage or reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for our products, or for procedures using our products, may cause our revenues to decline. Sales of our products depend in part on the reimbursement and coverage policies of governmental and private health care payers. The ability of our health care provider customers, including hospitals, to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, or for the procedures in which our products are used, may impact our customers’ purchasing decisions and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Third-party payers have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, health care policies intended to curb rising health care costs. These policies include: • controls on reimbursement for health care services and price controls on medical products and services; • limitations on coverage and reimbursement for new medical technologies and procedures; and • the introduction of managed care and prospective payment systems in which health care providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed reimbursement amount per person or per procedure. These trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our current products and product candidates and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes in the health care industry could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Changes in the health care industry in the United States and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct business. Additionally, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, federal, state or local legislative and regulatory changes and proposals to change the health care system, which could affect our business. For instance, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, has determined that, beginning in 2007, certain uses of pulse oximetry monitoring are eligible for separate Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting and are no longer bundled into payments for other services. The result of this change could be an increase in Medicare payments to hospitals for use of our products. However, each year CMS examines the reimbursement rates for both the inpatient and outpatient settings and could either increase or decrease the reimbursement rate for procedures utilizing our products. In addition, as a result of the focus on health care reform in connection with the 2008 presidential election, there is risk that Congress may implement changes in laws and regulations governing health care service providers, including measures to control costs, or reductions in reimbursement levels. Overall, we are unable to predict when legislation or regulation that affects our business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any such legislation, regulation or policies that affect the coverage and reimbursement of our current or future products, or the procedures utilizing our current or future products, could cause our sales to decrease and, as a result, our revenues to decline. Further, our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of reimbursement for our products through government-sponsored health care payment systems and other third-party payers. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary by country. These systems are often subject to the same pressures to curb rising health care costs and control health care expenditures as those in the United States. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their health care delivery and payment systems. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payers outside of the United States are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the United States may be adversely affected. Our ongoing antitrust litigation against Tyco Healthcare could result in significant additional costs and further divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In May 2002, we filed a lawsuit against Tyco Healthcare (currently Covidien), parent company of Nellcor, in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging damage to our business as a result of the anti-competitive business practices of Tyco Healthcare in connection with its pulse oximetry brand in violation of federal antitrust laws. Specifically, we alleged that we had incurred damages as a result of a series of illegal exclusionary and anti-competitive acts by Tyco Healthcare that were designed to maintain its monopoly in the pulse oximetry market. In March 2005, a jury found that Tyco Healthcare’s use of sole-source contracts, product bundling, market share-based compliance pricing contracts and co-marketing agreements with OEM patient monitoring companies were unlawful restraints of trade and exclusionary dealing arrangements and, as a result, violated federal antitrust laws. The jury awarded us $140.0 million in damages. Tyco Healthcare filed post-trial motions requesting that the District Court either override the jury decision or grant a new trial. In March 2006, the District Court upheld a portion of the jury verdict and vacated the remaining verdict. In addition, the District 35 Table of Contents Court vacated the jury’s damages award and granted Tyco Healthcare a new trial on damages. The District Court held an evidentiary hearing in October 2006 to re-try the damages. On January 25, 2007, the District Court issued a preliminary ruling which did not set damages, but resolved some issues of dispute about damages, and ordered another evidentiary hearing on issues still undecided by the District Court. The District Court held this evidentiary hearing in March 2007. On July 2, 2007, the District Court entered its final judgment, awarding us damages which were trebled to $43.5 million and denying our request for a permanent injunction with respect to the Tyco Healthcare business practices found to be anti-competitive. We and Tyco Healthcare have each filed a notice of appeal from the judgment. Even if we are ultimately awarded damages in this litigation, the amount will be subject to a 50% legal fee contingency agreement, in which case we would receive 50% of the net (of costs) proceeds from the award. We believe that Nellcor continues to enter into sole-source contracts, product bundling agreements, market share-based agreements, and co-marketing agreements. In bundling agreements, the customer is able to obtain discounts on unrelated products when they purchase Nellcor pulse oximeters for most of their pulse oximetry needs. Co-marketing agreements also provide significant impediments to competition in that Nellcor pays large patient monitoring companies to integrate Nellcor pulse oximetry products into their products. Continued litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive any cash award or any equitable relief from the litigation. We may issue additional securities in the future, including shares, debt or equity-linked debt, which may depress our stock price. Our issuance of additional securities could: • cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance; • cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; • subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage, including a reduction in our ability to obtain financing or an increase in the cost of any financing we obtain; • subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. We do not intend to seek stockholder approval for any such acquisition or security issuance unless required by applicable law or regulation or the terms of existing securities. If these securities are issued, such issuances may cause the trading price of our stock to decline. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet our requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through financings or borrowings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business results of operations and financial condition and investors’ confidence in us could be materially affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to integrate our systems of internal controls over financial reporting. We plan to evaluate our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. We expect to dedicate significant management, financial and other resources in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in and after 2008. We expect these efforts to include a review of our existing internal control structure. As a result of this review, we may either hire or outsource additional personnel to expand and strengthen our finance function. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to comply with all of our reporting obligations and successfully complete the certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by the time that we are required to file our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending January 3, 2009. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control and do not 36 Table of Contents address the deficiencies identified by our auditors, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the initial public offering price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price, many of which we cannot control, include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • our inability to raise additional capital as needed; • concern as to the efficacy of our products; • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 29, 2007, our current directors and executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 16.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, subject to any fiduciary duties owed to our other stockholders under Delaware law, will be able to exercise a controlling influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have significant control over our management and policies. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. In addition, these stockholders, some of whom have representatives sitting on our board of directors, could use their voting influence to maintain our existing management and directors in office, delay or prevent changes in control of us, or support or reject other management and board proposals that are subject to stockholder approval, such as amendments to our employee stock plans and approvals of significant financing transactions. Future sales of our common stock, including those by our insiders, may cause our stock price to decline. As of December 29, 2007, there were 54,692,232 shares of our common stock outstanding, including 3,287,494 shares sold by us and 10,416,626 shares sold by our selling stockholders in our initial public offering, or IPO, in August 2007. A significant portion of our shares of common stock outstanding prior to our IPO that were not sold by selling stockholders became eligible for sale in the public market on February 4, 2008 upon expiration of lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our IPO, although as of December 29, 2007, 8,887,690 of these shares were held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 as of that date. A large portion of our outstanding shares are held by a small number of persons and investment funds. 37 Table of Contents Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of 19,695,877 shares of common stock at December 29, 2007 have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders from time to time. Certain of our directors and executive officers have entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans pursuant to which they have sold and will continue to sell shares of our common stock. Generally, these sales require public filings. Actual or potential sales by these insiders, including those under a pre-arranged Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, could be viewed negatively by the market and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 29, 2007, an aggregate of 13,717,267 shares of our common stock were reserved for future issuance under our three equity incentive plans, 8,321,191 of which were subject to options outstanding as of that date. To the extent outstanding options are exercised, our existing stockholders may incur additional dilution. In December 2007, we registered an aggregate of 11,218,285 of these shares reserved under our equity plans under a Registration Statement on Form S-8. All shares issued pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions on our affiliates under Rule 144. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. As a result, without further stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three year terms, with approximately one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. A staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. An “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in the Delaware General Corporation Law. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan. Under the stockholder rights plan if any person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, subject to a number of exceptions set forth in the plan, all of our stockholders other than the acquiring person will receive a right to purchase shares of our common stock at a price of $136.00 per share. Our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover attempt and make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, without the approval of our board of directors, you may not have the opportunity to sell your shares to a potential acquirer of us at a premium over prevailing market prices. This could reduce the market price of our common stock. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management and key employees will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. Prior to August 2007, we operated as a private concern. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our people, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 38 Table of Contents We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by our compliance deadlines, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations because there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are unable to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or the NASDAQ Global Market. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets, and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our stock, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, business prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Therefore, you should not expect to receive dividend income from shares of our common stock. Securities analysts may not cover our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business or the pulse oximetry market. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, recently-adopted rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks, has led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. As long as we have a smaller market capitalization, it may be difficult for us to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 