ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks come to fruition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Revenues We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our Masimo SET platform and related products. If this technology and the related products do not continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the success and market acceptance of our proprietary Masimo SET. Currently, our primary product offerings are based on the Masimo SET platform. Continued market acceptance of products incorporating Masimo SET will depend upon our ability to continue to provide evidence to the medical community that our products are cost-effective and offer significantly improved performance compared to conventional pulse oximeters. Health care providers that currently have significant investments in competitive pulse oximetry products may be reluctant to purchase our products. If hospitals and other health care providers do not believe our Masimo SET platform is cost-effective, or more accurate or reliable than competitive pulse oximetry products, they may not buy our products in sufficient quantities to enable us to be profitable. If we are unable to achieve additional market acceptance of our core technology or products incorporating Masimo SET, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. Some of our products, including those based on licensed Rainbow technology, are in development or have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products that have been recently introduced into the market, including, but not limited to, those based on Rainbow technology, a technology that we license, may not be accepted in the market. Our first product incorporating licensed Rainbow technology was made commercially available in September 2005. In September 2008, we began our limited market release of total hemoglobin, and focused on obtaining data and clinical feedback on the performance of the product in the hospital. In the first quarter of 2009, we commercially launched our total hemoglobin product for continuous and noninvasive monitoring in the hospital. We also have begun our limited market release of Rainbow Acoustic Monitoring and we expect to do full commercial launch in the second half of 2010. As with our total hemoglobin release, we have initially provided this new measurement to the market in a limited market release to allow us to evaluate the product’s performance in the field. However, there can be no assurances of when we will roll it out fully. Given that certain Rainbow technology products are new to the marketplace, we do not know to what degree the market will accept these products, if at all. Even if our customers recognize the benefits of our products, we cannot assure you that our customers will purchase them in quantities sufficient for us to be profitable or successful. We will need to invest in significant sales and marketing resources to achieve market acceptance of these products with no assurance of success. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceived advantages and effectiveness of our products and their sales prices; • reimbursement available through Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, programs for using our products; and • introduction and acceptance of competing products or technologies; In order for any of our products to be accepted in the marketplace, we must demonstrate that they are effective and commercially beneficial. Even if customers accept these products, this acceptance may not result in sales if our competitors develop similar products that our customers prefer over ours. If our products do not gain market acceptance or if our customers prefer our competitors’ products, our potential growth would be limited, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET and our right to use Rainbow technology are each limited to certain markets by our Cross-Licensing Agreement with Masimo Labs, which may impair our growth and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In May 1998, we created a newly-formed entity, Masimo Laboratories, Inc., or Masimo Labs, and provided it rights to use Masimo SET to commercialize non-vital signs monitoring applications while we retained the rights to Masimo SET to commercialize vital signs monitoring applications. On May 2, 1998, we entered into a cross-licensing agreement with Masimo Labs, which has been amended several times, most recently in an Amended and Restated Cross-Licensing Agreement, effective January 1, 2007, or the Cross-Licensing Agreement. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we granted Masimo Labs: • an exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET owned by us, including all improvements on this technology, for the measurement of non-vital signs measurements and to 25 Table of Contents develop and sell devices incorporating Masimo SET for monitoring non-vital signs measurements in any product market in which a product is intended to be used by a patient or pharmacist rather than by a professional medical caregiver, which we refer to as the Labs Market, and • a non-exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET for measurement of vital signs in the Labs Market. Non-vital sign measurements consist of body fluid constituents other than vital sign measurements, including, but not limited to, carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, blood glucose, total hemoglobin and bilirubin. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we are only permitted to sell devices utilizing Masimo SET for the measurement of non-vital signs measurements in markets where the product is intended to be used by a professional medical caregiver, including, but not limited to, hospital caregivers and emergency medical services, or EMS, facility caregivers, rather than by a patient or pharmacist, which we refer to as the Masimo Market. Accordingly, our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET is limited. In particular, our inability to expand beyond the Masimo Market may impair our growth and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we have licensed from Masimo Labs the right to make and distribute products in the Masimo Market that utilize Rainbow technology for the measurement of only carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation and total hemoglobin, which includes hematocrit. As a result, the opportunity to expand the market for our products incorporating Rainbow technology is limited, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and impair our growth. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize enhanced or new products that remain competitive with new products or alternative technologies developed by others, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers, and our ability to grow our business would be impaired. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances, which places our products at risk of obsolescence. Our long-term success depends upon the development and successful commercialization of new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. The research and development process is time-consuming and costly and may not result in products or applications that we can successfully commercialize. In particular, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products for applications other than arterial blood oxygen saturation and pulse rate monitoring, including acoustic respiration rate, hemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin monitoring. If we do not successfully adapt our products and applications both within and outside these measurements, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers. Furthermore, one or more of our competitors may develop products that are substantially equivalent to our FDA-cleared products, or those of our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, partners, whereby they may be able to use our products or those of our OEM partners, as predicate devices to more quickly obtain FDA clearance of their competing products. We depend on our OEM partners for a portion of our revenue. If they do not devote sufficient resources to the promotion of products that use Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, our business would be harmed. We are, and will continue to be, dependent upon our OEM partners for a portion of our revenue through their marketing, selling and distribution of certain of their products that incorporate Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. Although we expect that our OEM partners will accept and actively market, sell and distribute products that incorporate licensed Rainbow technology, they may not elect, and they have no contractual obligation, to do so. Because products that incorporate our technologies may represent a relatively small percentage of business for some of our OEM partners, they may have less incentive to promote these products rather than other products that do not incorporate these technologies. In addition, some of our OEM partners offer products that compete with ours. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our OEM partners, or any company that might acquire any of our OEM partners, will vigorously promote products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, or at all. The failure of our OEM partners to successfully market, sell or distribute products incorporating these technologies, the termination of OEM agreements, the loss of OEM partners or the inability to enter into future OEM partnership agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain relationships with GPOs, sales of our products would decline. Our ability to sell our products to U.S. hospitals depends, in part, on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate beneficial pricing arrangements and contracts, which are sometimes exclusive, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors. 26 Table of Contents These negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, the GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely or unlikely to purchase our products. If a GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be prohibited from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. For the years ended January 2, 2010, January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007, shipments of our pulse oximetry products to customers that are members of GPOs represented, were $160.8 million, $132.1 million and $101.0 million, respectively, of our revenue from sales to U.S. hospitals. Our failure to renew our contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position would likely suffer and our business would be harmed. If we are unable to increase our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or maintain or establish arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our pulse oximetry and Rainbow technology products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have limited sales and marketing experience both in the U.S. and internationally and may not be successful in developing and implementing our business strategy. In addition, we currently have a small sales organization compared to many of our competitors. To increase our commercial capabilities, we need to: • increase our sales and marketing forces; • continue to maintain domestic and international OEM partners; • ensure that distributors and OEM partners provide the technical and educational support customers need to use products incorporating Masimo SET and Rainbow technology successfully; • promote monitoring systems using Masimo SET and Rainbow technology so that sales of those systems and our sensors increase; and • be prepared to provide services, as necessary, to geographically dispersed users of monitoring systems using Masimo SET and Rainbow technology. Failure to accomplish any of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently plan to increase the size of our direct sales force to further market our products in the U.S. and internationally. Increasing our direct sales capabilities will be expensive and time consuming and we may not be able to further develop this capacity on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities, we will need to continue to contract with third parties to market, sell and distribute our approved products in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause our product revenue to be lower than if we directly marketed, sold and distributed our products. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other sales and marketing arrangements with other companies, any revenue received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. If we are unable to maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to be profitable. Inadequate levels of coverage or reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for our products, or for procedures using our products, may cause our revenue to decline. Sales of our products depend in part on the reimbursement and coverage policies of governmental and private health care payers. The ability of our health care provider customers, including hospitals, to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, or for the procedures in which our products are used, may impact our customers’ purchasing decisions. Therefore, our customers’ inability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products would have a material adverse effect on our business. Third-party payers have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, health care policies intended to curb rising health care costs. These policies include, among others: • controls on reimbursement for health care services and price controls on medical products and services; • limitations on coverage and reimbursement for new medical technologies and procedures; and • the introduction of managed care and prospective payment systems in which health care providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed reimbursement amount per person or per procedure. 27 Table of Contents These trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our current products and product candidates and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent deterioration in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Since 2008, the credit markets and the financial services industry have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations if our customers’ ability to borrow money from their existing lenders, or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products under long term sensor agreements, were to be impaired. This credit market deterioration could affect our ability to acquire new customers for our products. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and grow our business. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same collection rates that we have in the past, especially given the recent deterioration of the credit markets worldwide. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required. These additional allowances could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our customers may reduce, delay or cancel purchases due to a variety of factors, such as lower hospital census levels, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the current worldwide economic environment, our customers are facing a growing level of uncertainties, such as lower overall hospital census for paying patients and the impact of that lower census on hospital budgets. In addition to the overall economic environment, there are specific portions of our business, such as our OEM customers, who, due to their capital equipment sales model, could be impacted by the ongoing economic environment and the resulting constraints on hospital budgets. These hospital budget constraints could cause our OEMs more difficulty in selling their large, relatively high priced multi-parameter devices which, in turn, could reduce our board sales to our OEM customers. In addition, certain of our products, including our Rainbow measurements such as carbon monoxide, methemoglobin and total hemoglobin are sold with upfront license fees and more complex, and therefore, more expensive sensors could be impacted by hospital budget reductions. The difficult economic environment and its impact on hospital budgets could also have other implications to our business, financial condition and results of operations. As an example, despite our agreements and our customers’ acknowledged preference for disposable single patient adhesive sensors due to performance and risk of contamination, our customers that are worried about finances could take desperate measures such as switching from disposable sensors to reusable sensors. In addition, our customers could also begin purchasing third party recycled sensors, rather than our new sensors, in an attempt to reduce their overall operating costs. The loss of any large customer or any cancellation or delay of a significant purchase by a large customer could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. We also have a concentration of OEM, distribution and direct customers. If for any reason we were to lose our ability to sell to a specific group or class of customers, we would experience a significant reduction in revenue, which would adversely impact our operating results. Also, we cannot provide any assurance that we will retain our current customers or groups of customers or that we will be able to attract and retain additional customers in the future. For the years ended January 2, 2010, January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007, one of our customers represented 14%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenue. Medical device reprocessors that reprocess our single-use sensors and then resell them to hospitals at a cost lower than our new sensors, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain medical device reprocessors have been collecting our used single-use sensors from hospitals and then reprocessing, repackaging and reselling those sensors to hospitals at a price lower than our new sensors. These reprocessed sensors may lead to confusion with our authorized products, reduce our revenue and harm our customer relationships. In addition, this may increase time and expense spent investigating and addressing performance issues with the reprocessed sensors, and enforcing our proprietary rights and contracts against the reprocessors. 28 Table of Contents Our royalty agreement with Covidien provides for a royalty rate schedule that could decline over the term of the settlement agreement. In addition, Covidien has the option to stop paying on March 14, 2011, which could significantly reduce our royalty revenue, total revenues and operating results due to not only the loss of royalties, but to the potential legal fees associated with a potential lawsuit resulting from Covidien’s continued patent infringement of our technology. In 2009, our royalties from the Covidien settlement totaled $49.0 million. Because these royalty payments do not carry any significant cost, they result in significant improvements to our reported gross profit, operating income levels and earnings per share. As a result, any decline in royalties that we earn under the settlement agreement in the future will have a significant impact on our revenue, gross margins, operating income and earnings per share. Under the current settlement agreement, we earn royalties on Covidien’s total U.S.-based pulse oximetry sales. The royalty rate in 2006 was nearly 20% if averaged over the entire year. The royalty rate for 2007 declined to 15%. In 2008, 2009 and through the remaining term of the settlement agreement, which will continue at least through March 14, 2011, the royalty rate is 13%, but may decline to 10%, subject to Covidien’s ability to develop new products that avoid some of our current patent coverage as negotiated in the settlement agreement. As a result, our total revenues, gross margins, operating income and earnings per share could be significantly reduced as compared to prior periods if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues and gross margins to offset either the impact of declining royalty rates or declining sales of Covidien’s pulse oximetry products in the U.S. The current royalty agreement provides Covidien with the option to stop paying the royalty on March 14, 2011. In exchange for this royalty payment, we have provided Covidien the ability to ship its patent infringing product with our covenant not to sue Covidien as long as they are abiding by the terms of the agreement. Should Covidien decide to discontinue abiding by the terms of the current settlement agreement, including paying us the required royalty payment, then our royalty payments could decline to zero which would have a material impact on our royalty revenue, total revenues, gross margins, operating income and earnings per share. In addition, if Covidien chooses to discontinue abiding by the terms of the current settlement and to continue to ship its pulse oximetry technology, then it is likely that we would file a new patent infringement lawsuit against Covidien resulting in higher legal expenses which would increase our operating expenses thereby adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology. We rely on patent protection, trade secrets, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the claims included in our patents. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may expire, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Some Masimo patents related to our Masimo SET algorithm technology begin to expire in March 2011. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual rights with the third parties that license technology to us to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. There is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, our OEM partners, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Our 29 Table of Contents common law trademarks provide less protection than our registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling certain products. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Whether a technology or product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues and is often difficult to determine. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. Searching for existing intellectual property rights may not reveal important intellectual property and our competitors may also have filed for patent protection, which is not publicly-available information, or claimed trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. In addition, many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. We may be subject to claims that our employees have disclosed, or that we have used, trade secrets or other proprietary information of our employees’ former employers. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, even those without merit, could: • increase the cost of our products; • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; • force us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, product candidates and technologies; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property on terms that may not be favorable or acceptable to us; • require us to indemnify third parties pursuant to contracts in which we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement claims; • divert the attention of our management and other key employees; • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products impacted by the claims until the claims are resolved; and • otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten the continued commercialization of our products in the market even after they have already been introduced. We believe competitors may currently be violating and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights, and we may bring additional litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from implementing our business strategy. We believe that the success of our business depends, in significant part, on obtaining patent protection for our products and technologies, defending our patents and preserving our trade secrets. We were previously involved in significant litigation to protect our patent position and may be required to engage in further litigation. In 2006, we settled a costly, six-year lawsuit against Mallinckrodt, Inc., part of Tyco Healthcare (currently Covidien Ltd.), and one of its subsidiaries, Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc., in which we claimed that Covidien was infringing some of our pulse oximetry signal processing patents. On February 3, 2009, we filed a patent infringement suit against Philips Electronics North America Corporation and Philips Medizin Systeme Böblingen Gmbh related to Philips FAST pulse oximetry technology and certain Philips patient monitors. Two patents at issue in this suit, related to our measure-through-motion technology, were successfully enforced in a previous suit by us against Nellcor. On June 15, 2009, Philips Electronics North America Corporation and Philips Medizin Systeme Böblingen Gmbh answered our complaint and Philips Electronics North America Corporation filed antitrust and patent infringement counterclaims against us as well as counterclaims seeking declaratory judgments of invalidity on the patents asserted by us against Philips. On July 9, 2009, we filed our answer denying Philips’ counterclaims and asserting various defenses. We also asserted counterclaims against Philips for fraud, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage and for declaratory judgments of noninfringement and invalidity with respect to the patents asserted by Philips 30 Table of Contents against us. Both Philips Electronics North America Corporation and Philips Medizin Systeme Böblingen Gmbh are associated with Philips Medical Systems, an OEM partner of ours. We believe that other competitors of ours, including some of our OEM partners, may be infringing at least one of our patents. Our failure to pursue any potential claim could result in the loss of our proprietary rights and harm our position in the marketplace. Therefore, we may be forced to pursue litigation to enforce our rights. Our ongoing and future litigation could result in significant additional costs and further divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment Our failure to obtain and maintain FDA clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, would prevent us from commercializing our current or upgraded products in the United States, which could severely harm our business. Each medical device that we wish to market in the U.S. generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by filing a 510(k) pre-market notification, or pre-market approval, or PMA, through submitting a PMA application. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, the clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. We cannot assure you that the FDA will grant 510(k) clearance on a timely basis, if at all, for new products or uses that we propose for Masimo SET or licensed Rainbow technology. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to six months, although it can take longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain and generally takes from one to three years or even longer. To date, the FDA has regulated pulse oximeters incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology, and our sensors, cables and other products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology for pulse oximetry under the 510(k) process. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for all of our current products, these clearances may be withdrawn by the FDA at any time if safety or effectiveness problems develop with our devices. Furthermore, our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and be required to undergo the more burdensome PMA process. In that case, our ability to upgrade our products in a timely fashion could be limited. The withdrawal of existing 510(k) clearances or the inability to obtain new ones on a timely basis, or at all, could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our OEM partners to obtain required FDA clearances or approvals for products that incorporate our technologies could have a negative impact on our revenue. Our OEM partners will be required to obtain their own FDA clearances for products incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology to market these products in the U.S. We cannot assure you that the FDA clearances we have obtained will make it easier for our OEM partners to obtain clearances of products incorporating these technologies, or that the FDA will ever grant clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any future product incorporating Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology that our OEM partners propose to market. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Our products, along with the manufacturing processes and promotional activities for such products, are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, component suppliers control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through announced and unannounced inspections. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. Failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, discovery of previously unknown problems with our products (including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency), manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or failure to adequately respond to any FDA observations concerning these issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters or untitled letters issued by the FDA; • fines, civil penalties, injunctions and criminal prosecution; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; 31 Table of Contents • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; • withdrawal or suspension of clearance or approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • product recall or seizure; • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund; • interruption of production; and • operating restrictions. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be, or may not continue to be, in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We currently market and intend to continue to market our products internationally. Outside of the U.S., we can market a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The regulatory registration/licensing process varies among international jurisdictions and may require additional testing. The time required for international registration of new products may differ from that required for obtaining FDA clearance. The foreign registration/licensing process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance in addition to other risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory registration/licensing on a timely basis, if at all. FDA clearance does not ensure new product registration/licensing by foreign regulatory authorities. Approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by any other foreign regulatory authority or by the FDA. If we fail to receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a PMA approval. We may not be able to obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and we may make additional modifications in the future, some of which we may believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees with our conclusion and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Federal regulatory reforms may reduce the profit we are able to earn on the sale of our products. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. However, any changes could make it more difficult for us to maintain or attain approval to develop and commercialize our products and technologies. If our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions, including recall of our products. Under the FDA medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which a product of ours may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which a product of ours malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In addition, all manufacturers placing medical devices in European Union markets are legally required to report to the relevant authority in whose jurisdiction any serious or potentially serious incidents occurred involving devices produced or sold by the manufacturer. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects, in for example, design, labeling or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the 32 Table of Contents authority to require a recall generally must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found or we become aware of a safety issue involving a marketed product. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or by one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. We may initiate certain voluntary recalls involving our products in the future. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From our inception through January 2, 2010, we initiated four voluntary recalls of our products, none of which was material to our operating results. Each of these recalls was reported to the FDA within the appropriate regulatory timeframes. Because of our dependence upon patient and physician perceptions, any negative publicity associated with these voluntary recalls could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Off-label promotion of our products or promotional claims deemed false or misleading could subject us to substantial penalties. Obtaining 510(k) clearance only permits us to promote our products for the uses specifically cleared by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use our products off-label because the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. Although we may request additional cleared indications for our current products, the FDA may deny those requests, require additional expensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared product as a condition of clearance. We must have adequate substantiation for our product performance claims. If the FDA determines that we or our OEM partners have promoted our products for off-label use or have made false or misleading or inadequately substantiated promotional claims, it could request that we or our OEM partners modify those promotional materials or take regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an uncleared or unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, we would be subject to extensive fines and penalties and our reputation could be damaged and adoption of our products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state health care laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with these laws. Although we do not provide health care services or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, health care regulation by federal and state governments will impact our business. Health care fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws potentially applicable to our operations include, but are not limited to: • the Federal Health Care Programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving any bribe, kickback or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase, order or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs); • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent; • the federal provisions of HIPAA established federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payers, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain health information. We have certain arrangements with hospitals that may be affected by these laws. For instance, under our standard customer arrangements, we provide hospitals with free pulse oximetry monitoring devices in exchange for their agreement to purchase 33 Table of Contents future pulse oximetry sensor requirements from us. In addition, we occasionally provide our customers with rebates in connection with their annual purchases. While we believe that these arrangements are structured such that we are currently in compliance with applicable federal and state health care laws, one or more of these arrangements may not meet the Federal Anti-Kickback Law’s safe harbor requirements, which may result in increased scrutiny by government authorities that are responsible for enforcing these laws. There can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any of such laws or other similar governmental regulations to which we are directly or indirectly subject, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. We are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of individually identifiable health information that we may obtain or have access to in connection with manufacture and sale of our products. We may be required to make costly system modifications to comply with the HIPAA privacy and security requirements. Our failure to comply may result in criminal and civil liability because the potential for enforcement action against business associates is greater as a result of HITECH. Numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of patient information including state medical information privacy laws, state social security number protection laws and state and federal consumer protection laws. In some cases, more protective state privacy and security laws are not preempted by HIPAA and may be subject to interpretation by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers. State and federal human subject protection laws apply to our receipt of individually identifiable health information in connection with clinical research. These laws could create liability for us if one of our research collaborators uses or discloses research subject information without authorization and in violation of applicable laws. Legislative and regulatory changes in the health care industry could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Furthermore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected if certain types of health care reform programs are adopted in our key markets and other administration and legislative proposals are enacted into law. Changes in the health care industry in the U.S. and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct our business. Significantly, the new administration and Congressional and state leaders have expressed a strong desire to reform the U.S. health care system. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms. On November 7, 2009, the House of Representatives passed health reform legislation that would require most individuals to have health insurance, establish new regulations on health plans, create insurance pooling mechanisms and a government health insurance option to compete with private plans, and other expanded public health care measures. This legislation also would reduce Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers and would impose a 2.5 percent tax on the first taxable sale of any medical device. On December 24, 2009, the Senate passed a similar health reform bill. The Senate bill includes a $2 billion annual fee or excise tax on the medical device manufacturing sector. Various health care reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The House and Senate bills have not been conferenced, and it is unclear whether or when they will be enacted in part or in whole. We cannot predict what health care initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, if the excise tax contained in the House or Senate health reform bills is enacted into law, our operating expenses resulting from such an excise tax and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected, if we can not pass the excise tax onto our customers. In general, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. health care industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce demand for innovative products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially. Furthermore, many private payors look to Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies in setting their coverage policies and reimbursement amounts such that federal reforms could influence the private sector as well. Finally, many states also may attempt to reform their Medicaid programs such that either coverage for certain items or services may be narrowed or reimbursement for them could be reduced. These health care reforms may adversely affect our business. 34 Table of Contents Consistent with or in addition to Congressional or state reforms, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs could change its current policies that affect coverage and reimbursement for our products. CMS determined in 2007 that certain uses of pulse oximetry monitoring are eligible for separate Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting when no separately payable hospital outpatient services are reported on the same date of service. Each year, however, CMS re-examines the reimbursement rates for hospital inpatient and outpatient and physician office settings and could either increase or decrease the reimbursement rate for procedures utilizing our products. We are unable to predict when legislation or regulation that affects our business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any such legislation, regulation or policies that affect the coverage and reimbursement of our current or future products, or the procedures utilizing our current or future products, could cause our sales to decrease and our revenue to decline. In addition, the requirements or restrictions imposed on us or our products may change, either as a result of administratively adopted policies or regulations or as a result of the enactment of new laws. Such changes are particular possibilities in light of the 2008 elections in the U.S. There may be heightened scrutiny by federal and state regulators and legislators of the FDA’s device approval process, the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed devices, and physician payments and promotional activities by manufacturers. Any new regulations or statutory provisions could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials, and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance. Further, our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of reimbursement for our products through government-sponsored health care payment systems and other third-party payers. Outside of the U.S., reimbursement systems vary by country. These systems are often subject to the same pressures to curb rising health care costs and control health care expenditures as those in the U.S. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their health care delivery and payment systems. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payers outside of the U.S. are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the U.S. may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Masimo Labs has conducted most of the research and development of Rainbow technology and we are dependent upon Masimo Labs to develop improvements to Rainbow technology. Masimo Labs has conducted the substantial majority of research and development of Rainbow technology. Although we expect Masimo Labs to continue its research and development activities related to Rainbow technology and specific noninvasive monitoring measurements, including blood glucose and total hemoglobin, we have no assurance that it will do so. In the event Masimo Labs does not continue to develop and improve Rainbow technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We will experience conflicts of interest with Masimo Labs with respect to business opportunities and other matters. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2007, our stockholders owned approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Masimo Labs and we believe that as of January 2, 2010, a number of stockholders of Masimo Labs continued to own shares of our stock. Joe E. Kiani, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Masimo Labs. Jack Lasersohn, another member of our board of directors, also serves on the board of directors of Masimo Labs. Due to the interrelated nature of Masimo Labs with us, conflicts of interest will arise with respect to transactions involving business dealings between us and Masimo Labs, potential acquisitions of businesses or products, development of products and technology, the sale of products, markets and other matters in which our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders may conflict with the best interests of the stockholders of Masimo Labs. We cannot assure you that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor, or that with respect to our transactions with Masimo Labs we will negotiate terms that are as favorable to us as if such transactions were with an unaffiliated third party. We will be required to pay Masimo Labs for the right to use certain improvements to Masimo SET that we develop. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, if we develop improvements to Masimo SET for the noninvasive measurement of non-vital signs measurements, we would be required to assign these developments to Masimo Labs and then license the technology back from Masimo Labs in consideration for a license fee and royalty obligations to Masimo Labs. Therefore, any improvement to this technology would be treated as if it had been developed exclusively by Masimo Labs. In addition, we will not be reimbursed by Masimo Labs for our expenses relating to the development of any such technology. As a result of these terms, we may not generate any revenue from the further development of Masimo SET for the measurement of non-vital signs measurements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents We are required to pay royalties to Masimo Labs for all products sold that contain Rainbow technology, including certain annual minimum royalty payments, and this may impact our gross margins if we discontinue consolidating Masimo Labs within our financial statements. The Cross-Licensing Agreement requires us to pay Masimo Labs a royalty for all products that we sell which include their proprietary Rainbow technology. This includes handheld, table-top and multi-measurement products that incorporate licensed Rainbow technology. Beginning in 2009, for hospital contracts where we place equipment and enter into a sensor contract, we will pay a royalty to Masimo Labs on the total sensor contract revenue based on the ratio of Rainbow enabled devices to total devices. The agreement also requires that we provide to Masimo Labs, at its request, up to 10% of our annual board and sensor production volume at our total manufactured cost. In addition to these specific royalty and product obligations, our Cross-Licensing Agreement requires that we pay Masimo Labs specific annual minimum royalty payments. Currently, we are required to consolidate Masimo Labs within our financial statements. Accordingly, the royalties that we owe to Masimo Labs are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements presented within this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other periodic reports and the gross profit margins reported in our consolidated financial results do not include the royalty expense that we pay to Masimo Labs. We are also obligated to include, and have included, Masimo Labs’ engineering and administrative expenses in our reported engineering and administrative expenses. If our financial statements were not consolidated with Masimo Labs, our reported cost of goods sold would increase and our reported engineering and administrative expenses would decrease. To date, the amount of royalty expense has approximated the amount of engineering and administrative expense and therefore, the net impact to our consolidated financial statements has not been significant. However, in the future, depending upon the success of Rainbow products and the royalties earned by Masimo Labs on those revenues, it is possible that the royalty expense will grow at a rate higher than the growth of engineering and administrative expenses. In the event the net impact on our consolidated results is material, we will reflect the amount of Masimo Labs income through our consolidated statement of income as an element of noncontrolling interest income. As a result, despite the current requirement to consolidate, any profit in our consolidated financial results that is attributable to Masimo Labs will be separately identified. Despite describing and reflecting this Masimo Labs consolidation requirement within our financial statements, failure to understand or appreciate the significance of our consolidation of Masimo Labs’ financial statements may lead current and prospective investors to draw inaccurate perspectives and conclusions regarding our historical and future financial condition and results of operations. In the event that the Cross-Licensing Agreement is terminated for any reason, or Masimo Labs grants a license to Rainbow technology to a third party, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Masimo Labs owns all of the proprietary rights to Rainbow technology developed with our proprietary Masimo SET for products intended to be used in the Labs Market, and all rights for any non-vital signs measurement for which we do not exercise an option pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement. In addition, Masimo Labs has the right to terminate the Cross-Licensing Agreement or grant licenses covering Rainbow technology to third parties if we breach certain terms of the agreement, including any failure to meet our minimum royalty payment obligations or failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop or market products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology. If we lose our exclusive license to Rainbow technology, we would lose the ability to prevent others from making, using, selling or importing products using Rainbow technology in our market. As a result, we would likely be subject to increased competition within our market, and Masimo Labs or competitors who obtain a license to Rainbow technology from Masimo Labs would be able to offer related products. We may not be able to commercialize our products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology cost-effectively or successfully. It is generally more expensive for us to make products that incorporate Rainbow technology than products that do not due to increased production costs and the royalties that we must pay to Masimo Labs. In order to successfully commercialize products incorporating Rainbow technology, we must be able to pass these higher costs on to the market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell products incorporating Rainbow technology at a price the market is willing to accept. If we cannot commercialize our products incorporating licensed Rainbow technology successfully, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue from these products to be profitable, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rights provided to Masimo Labs in the Cross-Licensing Agreement may impede a change in control of our company. In the event we undergo a change in control, we are required to immediately pay a $2.5 million fee to exercise an option to license technology developed by Masimo Labs for use in blood glucose monitoring. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, a 36 Table of Contents change in control includes, but is not limited to, the resignation or termination of Joe E. Kiani from his position of Chief Executive Officer of either Masimo or Masimo Labs. Additionally, our per product royalties payable to Masimo Labs will become subject to specified minimums, and the minimum aggregate annual royalties for all licensed Rainbow measurements payable to Masimo Labs will increase to up to $15.0 million from $5.0 million currently for carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation, total hemoglobin and blood glucose, plus up to $2.0 million per other Rainbow measurements. Also, if the surviving or acquiring entity ceases to use “Masimo” as a company name and trademark following a change in control, all rights to the “Masimo” trademark will automatically be assigned to Masimo Labs. This could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over our then-current trading price. In addition, our requirement to assign all future improvements for non-vital signs to Masimo Labs could impede a change in control of our company. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results in the future and we may not maintain our recent profitability and changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules may affect how we conduct our business and affect our reported results of operations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations as a result of: • delays or interruptions in manufacturing and shipping of our products; • varying demand for and market acceptance of our technologies and products; • the effect of competing technological and market developments resulting in lower selling prices or significant promotional costs; • changes in the timing of product orders and the volume of sales to our OEM partners; • actions taken by GPOs; • delays in hospital conversions to our products and declines in hospital patient census; • our legal expenses, particularly those related to litigation matters; • changes in our product or customer mix; • unanticipated delays or problems in the introduction of new products, including delays in obtaining clearance or approval from the FDA; and • high levels of returns and repairs. If our operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels and are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue for a particular period was below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Any revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results for the period. Due to these and other factors, you should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. In addition, a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices, or the interpretation of them by the SEC or other regulatory bodies, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the adoption of new rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to develop products perceived as more effective or easier to use than ours or are more readily accepted, or offer their products at lower prices than we can, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face substantial competition from companies developing products that compete with our Masimo SET platform for use with third-party monitoring systems. We also face competition from companies currently marketing pulse oximetry monitors. Our revenue and profit are significantly smaller than our primary competitors. A number of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours, and have established stronger reputations with our target customers and built relationships with GPOs and worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Competition could result in reductions in the price of our products, fewer orders for our products, a reduction of our 37 Table of Contents gross margins and a loss of our market share. Reliance on clinical studies is an important means of demonstrating the effectiveness of products in our industry. If clinical studies supporting our competitors’ products are perceived to be accurate and reliable, market acceptance and sales of our products could be adversely impacted and we could lose market share to our competitors. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Joe E. Kiani, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key officers. We are also heavily dependent on our engineers and field sales team, including sales representatives and clinical specialists. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management, engineers and field sales team, and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel. Competition for senior management, engineers and field sales personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. In addition, some of our key personnel hold stock options with an exercise price that is greater than our recent closing prices, which may minimize the retention value of these options. The loss of the services of members of our key personnel could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and introduction of our products. In general, our officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice for any reason. We carry key person life insurance on only Mr. Kiani, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Masimo Labs. Mr. Kiani devotes most of his time to us. Existing or future acquisitions of businesses could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we fail to integrate the acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or if we discover previously undisclosed liabilities. We have acquired four businesses since our inception and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. Successful acquisitions depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, products and other assets into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company, products or other assets; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; and • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities that we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new international business structure may not result in expected operational benefits. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we implemented a new international business structure designed to better serve and support our growing international business. By centralizing our international operations, including sales management, marketing, customer support, planning, logistics and administrative functions, we believe we will be able to develop a more efficient and scalable international organization – capable of being even more responsive to the business needs of our international customers—all under one centralized management structure. We commenced the implementation of an international business structure to align our operations with the business needs of our non-U.S. customers and we believe that we may, in the long run, also benefit from certain operational benefits and achieve a lower overall tax rate. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will produce any anticipated operational benefits or provide an overall lower tax rate. Realization of the expected benefits will depend on a number of factors, including our future business results and profitability, the effectiveness and timing of our implementation of our international business structure, changes in U.S. or international tax law and the geographic composition of our pre-tax income. Legislative action may be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could adversely affect our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had a negative effect on our international business structure, we could be subjected to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense. 38 Table of Contents The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a portion of our net sales from international operations. In the years ended January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009, 25.8% and 25.1%, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from our international operations. In addition, we purchase a portion of our raw materials and components on the international market. The sale and shipping of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of materials and components from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and we would be exposed to potentially significant penalties for non-compliance. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping, manufacturing and sales activities. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; • loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • longer payment cycles; and • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could subject us to cash and non-cash penalties, disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may be adversely impacted by our exposure to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. We market our products in certain foreign markets through our subsidiaries and other international distributors. The related sales agreements may provide for payments in a foreign currency. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the dollar value of foreign-currency denominated revenue and expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against these currencies, the dollar value of foreign-currency denominated revenue and expense decreases. We are exposed to foreign currency risk on outstanding foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. Changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our primary foreign currency exchange rate exposures are with the Euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar. 39 Table of Contents We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency exchange rate risks and therefore believe our exposure to these risks may be higher than if we entered into hedging transactions, including forward exchange contracts or similar instruments. If we decide in the future to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to attempt to reduce the risk related to foreign currency exchange rates, these contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts. In addition, these types of contracts may themselves cause financial harm to us and have inherent levels of counterparty risk over which we would have no control. We manufacture our products at two locations and any disruption in these manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, we have relied on our manufacturing facilities in Irvine, California and Mexicali, Mexico. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. Earthquakes are of particular significance since our Irvine, California facility is located in an earthquake-prone area. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods and similar events. In the event that one of our facilities was affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to our other manufacturing facility. Our insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are forced to seek alternative facilities, we may incur additional costs and we may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. We are also vulnerable to disruptions which may occur as a result of local, regional and worldwide health risks, including but not limited to outbreaks of Avian and Swine flu. Such disruptions may include the inability to manufacture and distribute our products due to the direct effects of illness on individuals or due to constraints on supply and distribution that may result from either voluntary or government imposed restrictions. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our suppliers may not supply us with a sufficient amount of materials and components or materials and components of adequate quality. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers for key materials and components of our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions, and if we are unable to obtain these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions to customers. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the materials or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality or that the prices we pay for these materials or components will not increase. From time to time, there are industry-wide shortages of several electronic components that we use in our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions. We may experience delays in production of our products if we fail to identify alternate vendors for materials and components, or any parts supply is interrupted or reduced or there is a significant increase in production costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition and investors’ confidence in us could be materially and adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner and meet our reporting obligations in their entirety could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to evaluate and provide a management report of our systems of internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in 40 Table of Contents accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Any failure to maintain the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, negatively impact the trading price of our stock, and adversely affect investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets for financing. If product liability claims are brought against us, we could face substantial liability and costs. The manufacture and sale of products using Masimo SET and licensed Rainbow technology expose us to product liability claims and product recalls, including, but not limited to, those that may arise from unauthorized off-label use, which is use of a device in a manner outside the measurement or measurements cleared by the FDA, or malfunction of, or design flaws or manufacturing defects in, our products or the use of our products with incompatible components or systems. Any losses that we may suffer from product liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our technology and products, together with the corresponding diversion of the attention of our key employees, may subject us to significant damages and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover any or all damages or claims. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts to protect us against any product liability claims. We may incur environmental and personal injury liabilities related to certain hazardous materials used in our operations. Our manufacturing processes involve the use, generation and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, including silicone adhesives, solder and solder paste, sealants, epoxies and various solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone, acetone and isopropyl alcohol. As a result, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. Future environmental laws may significantly affect our operations because, for instance, our manufacturing processes may be required to be altered, which may increase our manufacturing costs. In our research and manufacturing activities, we use, and our employees, may be exposed to, materials that are hazardous to human health, safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. The risk of accidental injury, including to our employees, or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any such liability could exceed our reserves. Although we maintain general liability insurance, we do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities. If an enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action on terms favorable to us. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is often unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our stock. From January 4, 2009 to January 2, 2010, our closing stock price ranged from $22.13 to $31.08. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them due to fluctuations in the market price of our stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors, in addition to the other risk factors identified above, that may have a significant effect on our stock market price, many of which we cannot control. These include but are not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; 41 Table of Contents • our inability to raise additional capital as needed; • concern as to the efficacy of our products; • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; • sales of stock by us or members of our management team, our Board of Directors or certain institutional stockholders; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. In particular, the current decline of the financial markets and related factors beyond our control, including the credit and mortgage crisis in both the U.S. and worldwide, may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of January 2, 2010, our current directors and executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 12.0% of our outstanding stock. Subject to any fiduciary duties owed to our other stockholders under Delaware law, the stockholders may be able to exercise a significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have some control over our management and policies. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your best interests. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our stock. In addition, these stockholders, some of whom have representatives sitting on our board of directors, could use their voting influence to maintain our existing management and directors in office, delay or prevent changes in control of us, or support or reject other management and board proposals that are subject to stockholder approval, such as amendments to our employee stock plans and approvals of significant financing transactions. You could experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of subsequent exercises of our outstanding options or the grant of future equity awards by us. As of January 2, 2010, an aggregate of 12,249,845 shares of our stock were reserved for future issuance under our three equity incentive plans, 8,125,871 of which were subject to options outstanding as of that date at a weighted average exercise price of $18.21 per share. To the extent outstanding options are exercised, our existing stockholders may incur dilution. We rely heavily on equity awards to motivate current employees and to attract new employees. The grant of future equity awards by us to our employees and other service providers may further dilute our stockholders. Future resales of our stock, including those by our insiders, may cause our stock price to decline. A large portion of our outstanding shares are held by directors, executive officers and a small number of investment funds. Resale by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares, announcements of the proposed resale of substantial amounts of our stock or the perception that substantial resales may be made, could significantly reduce the market price of our stock. Some of our directors and executive officers have entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans pursuant to which they have arranged to sell shares of our stock from time to time in the future. Generally, these sales require public filings. Actual or potential sales by these insiders, including those under a pre-arranged Rule 10b5-1 trading plan, could be interpreted by the market as an indication that the insider has lost confidence in our stock and reduce the market price of our stock. In March 2009, we registered an aggregate of 4,657,660 shares reserved under our equity plans under a Registration Statement on Form S-8. All shares issued pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions on our affiliates under Rule 144. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our stock. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, prevent attempts to replace or remove current management and reduce the market price of our stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. As a result, without further stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it 42 Table of Contents more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three year terms, with one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. A staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. An “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in the Delaware General Corporation Law. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. Under the stockholder rights plan if any person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of stock, subject to a number of exceptions set forth in the plan, all of our stockholders other than the acquiring person will receive a right to purchase shares of our stock at a price of $136.00 per share. Our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover attempt and make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, without the approval of our board of directors, you may not have the opportunity to sell your shares to a potential acquirer of us at a premium over prevailing market prices. This could reduce the market price of our stock. We may elect to not declare cash dividends on our stock, or may elect to only pay dividends on an infrequent or irregular basis, and any return on your investment may be limited to the value of our stock. Our board of directors may from time to time declare, and we may pay, dividends on our outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law. However, we may elect to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business, rather than paying cash dividends on our stock. Any payment of cash dividends on our stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, business prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In the event our board of directors declares any dividends, there is no assurance with respect to the amount, timing or frequency of any such dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 