Risk Factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks and the impact they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the more relevant risks are described below. Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The Semiconductor Industry is Highly Cyclical and We May Be Adversely Affected by Any Downturn As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, we are subject to the industry’s business cycles, the timing, duration and volatility of which are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical. Sales of our photolithography systems depend in large part upon the level of capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. These capital expenditures depend upon a range of competitive and market factors, including: • the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and for products utilizing semiconductors; • semiconductor prices; • semiconductor production costs; • general economic conditions; and • access to capital. Future reductions or delays in capital equipment purchases by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In an industry downturn, including the downturn associated with the current global financial market crisis, our ability to maintain profitability will depend substantially on whether we are able to lower our costs and break-even level, which is the level of sales ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2008 4 Table of Contents that we must reach in a year to achieve net income. If sales levels decrease significantly as a result of an industry downturn and we are unable to adjust our cost over the same period, our net income may decline significantly or we may suffer losses. As we need to keep certain levels of inventory on hand to meet anticipated product demand, we also incur increased costs related to inventory obsolescence in an industry downturn. In addition, industry downturns generally result in overcapacity, resulting in downward pressure on prices and impairment of machinery and equipment, which in the past has had, and in the future could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the current financial crisis affecting the banking system and global financial markets is in many respects unprecedented in the history of our Company. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the financial crisis on our business, including declining business and consumer confidence resulting in reduced, delayed or shorter-term capital expenditures on our products; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, delayed payments from our customers and/or customer insolvencies; and other adverse effects that neither we, nor industry analysts generally, can currently anticipate. If global economic and market conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we are likely to experience continuing material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, in anticipation of periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we must maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory, and we must attract, hire, integrate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet customer demand. Our ability to predict the timing and magnitude of industry fluctuations is limited and our products require significant lead time to complete. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively increase our production capacity to respond to an increase in customer demand in an industry upturn resulting in lost revenues and damage to customer relationships. Our Business Will Suffer If We Do Not Respond Rapidly to Commercial and Technological Changes in the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor manufacturing industry is subject to: • rapid change towards more complex technologies; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • evolving industry standards; • changes in customer requirements; and • continued shortening of product life cycles. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology. Our success in developing new products and in enhancing our existing products depends on a variety of factors, including the successful management of our research and development programs and timely completion of product development and design relative to competitors. If we do not develop and introduce new and enhanced systems at competitive prices and on a timely basis, our customers will not integrate our systems into the planning and design of new fabrication facilities and upgrades of existing facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are investing considerable financial and other resources to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, such as Extreme Ultraviolet lithography (“EUV”), that our customers may not ultimately adopt. If our customers do not adopt these new technologies, products or product enhancements that we develop due to a preference for more established or alternative new technologies and products or for other reasons, we would not recoup any return on our investments in these technologies or products, which may result in charges to our consolidated statements of operations and have a materially adverse effect on the future growth of the Company. We Face Intense Competition The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in our market segments are: • the technical performance characteristics of a photolithography system; • the value of ownership of that system based on its purchase price, maintenance costs, productivity and customer service and support; • the strength and breadth of our portfolio of patents and other intellectual property rights; and • our customers’ desire to obtain lithography equipment from more than one supplier. Our competitiveness increasingly depends upon our ability to develop new and enhanced semiconductor equipment that is competitively priced and introduced on a timely basis, as well as our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview, Intellectual Property” and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. ASML’s primary competitors are Nikon Corporation (“Nikon”) and Canon Kabushika Kaisha (“Canon”). Nikon and Canon are important suppliers in Japan, which accounts for a significant portion of worldwide semiconductor production. This region historically has been difficult for non-Japanese companies to penetrate. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 Table of Contents Both Nikon and Canon have substantial financial resources and broad patent portfolios. Each continues to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics that compete directly with our products, and may cause a decline in our sales or loss of market acceptance for our photolithography systems. In addition, adverse market conditions, industry overcapacity or a further decrease in the value of the Japanese yen in relation to the euro or the U.S. dollar could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to ASML The Number of Systems We Can Produce Is Limited by Our Dependence on a Limited Number of Suppliers of Key Components We rely on outside vendors for the components and subassemblies used in our systems, each of which is obtained from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and the risk of untimely delivery of these components and subassemblies. The number of photolithography systems we are able to produce is limited by the production capacity of Carl Zeiss SMT AG (“Zeiss”). Zeiss is our single supplier of lenses and other critical optical components. If Zeiss were unable to maintain and increase production levels or if we are unable to maintain our business relationship with Zeiss in the future we could be unable to fulfill orders, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Zeiss were to terminate its relationship with us or if Zeiss were unable to maintain production of lenses over a prolonged period, we would effectively cease to be able to conduct our business. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview, Manufacturing, Logistics and Suppliers”. In addition to Zeiss’ current position as our single supplier of lenses, the excimer laser illumination systems that provide the ultraviolet light source, referred to as “deep UV”, used in our high resolution steppers and Step & Scan systems are available from only a limited number of suppliers. In particular, we rely both on Cymer, Inc., a United States based company, and Gigaphoton, Inc., a Japanese based company, to provide excimer laser illumination systems. Although the timeliness, yield and quality of deliveries to date from our other subcontractors generally have been satisfactory, manufacturing of certain of these components and subassemblies that we use in our manufacturing processes is an extremely complex process and delays caused by suppliers may occur in the future. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate deliveries of components or subassemblies, or any other circumstance that requires us to seek alternative sources of supply, could significantly hinder our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A High Percentage of Net Sales Is Derived from a Few Customers Historically, we have sold a substantial number of lithography systems to a limited number of customers. While the identity of our largest customers may vary from year to year, we expect sales to remain concentrated among relatively few customers in any particular year. In 2008, sales to our largest customer accounted for EUR 754 million, or 25.5 percent of net sales, compared to EUR 818 million, or 21.7 percent of net sales, in 2007. The loss of any significant customer or any significant reduction in orders by a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as a result of the limited number of our customers, credit risk on our receivables is concentrated. Our three largest customers accounted for 42.2 percent of accounts receivable at December 31, 2008, compared to 40.1 percent at December 31, 2007. As a result, business failure or insolvency of one of our main customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Derive Most of Our Revenues from the Sale of a Relatively Small Number of Products We derive most of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of lithography equipment systems (151 units in 2008; 260 units in 2007), with an average selling price (“ASP”) in 2008 of EUR 16.7 million (EUR 20.4 million for new systems and EUR 4.8 million for used systems) and an ASP in 2007 of EUR 12.9 million (EUR 13.8 million for new systems and EUR 3.9 million for used systems). As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue from a small number of product sales may have a significant impact on our net sales and operating results for a particular reporting period. Specifically, the failure to receive anticipated orders, or delays in shipments near the end of a particular reporting period, due, for example, to: • a downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry; • unanticipated shipment rescheduling; • cancellation or order push-back by customers; • unexpected manufacturing difficulties; and • delays in deliveries by suppliers, ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2008 6 Table of Contents may cause net sales in a particular reporting period to fall significantly below net sales in previous periods or our expected net sales, and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results for that period. In particular our published quarterly earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may vary in the future for the reasons discussed above. The Pace of Introduction of Our New Products Is Accelerating and Is Accompanied by Potential Design and Production Delays and by Significant Costs The development and initial production, installation and enhancement of the systems we produce is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs of a nature typically associated with the introduction and transition to full-scale manufacturing of complex capital equipment. While we expect and plan for a corresponding learning curve effect in our product development cycle, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems and to ensure full performance to specifications. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we expected in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order for the market to accept technology enhancements, our customers, in many cases, must upgrade their existing technology capabilities. Such upgrades from established technology may not be available to our customers to enable volume production using our new technology enhancements. This could result in our customers not purchasing, or pushing back or cancelling orders for our technology enhancements, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to Adequately Protect the Intellectual Property Rights Upon Which We Depend Could Harm Our Business We rely on intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology. However, we face the risk that such measures could prove to be inadequate because: • intellectual property laws may not sufficiently support our proprietary rights or may change in the future in a manner adverse to us; • patent rights may not be granted or construed as we expect; • patents will expire which may result in key technology becoming widely available which may hurt our competitive position; • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary rights may not be successful; and • third parties may be able to develop or obtain patents for similar competing technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and, if decided unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Defending Against Intellectual Property Claims Brought by Others Could Harm Our Business In the course of our business, we are subject to claims by third parties alleging that our products or processes infringe upon their intellectual property rights. If successful, such claims could limit or prohibit us from developing our technology and manufacturing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our customers may be subject to claims of infringement from third parties, alleging that our products used by such customers in the manufacture of semiconductor products and/or the processes relating to the use of our products infringe one or more patents issued to such parties. If such claims were successful, we could be required to indemnify customers for some or all of any losses incurred or damages assessed against them as a result of such infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also incur substantial licensing or settlement costs where doing so would strengthen or expand our intellectual property rights or limit our exposure to intellectual property claims brought by others, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Risks in Our International Operations The majority of our sales are made to customers outside Europe. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in some of those regions, including the following: • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unfavorable political or economic environments; • unexpected legal or regulatory changes; and • an inability to effectively protect intellectual property. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2008 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage successfully the risks inherent in our international activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, approximately 12.2 percent of our 2008 revenues and approximately 21.1 percent of our 2007 revenues were derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China asserts sovereignty over Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Changes in relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, Taiwanese government policies and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political, economic or social environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Dependent on the Continued Operation of a Limited Number of Manufacturing Facilities All of our manufacturing activities, including subassembly, final assembly and system testing, take place in one clean room facility located in Veldhoven, the Netherlands, and one clean room facility in Wilton, Connecticut, the United States. These facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, fire, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. We cannot ensure that alternative production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of Labor Laws and Practices, Any Work force Reductions That We May Wish to Implement in Order to Reduce Costs Company-Wide May Be Delayed or Suspended The semiconductor market is highly cyclical and as a consequence we may need to implement work force reductions in case of a downturn, in order to adapt to such market changes. In accordance with labor laws and practices applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a reduction of any significance may be subject to certain formal procedures, which can delay, or may result in the modification of our planned work force reductions. For example, in the Netherlands, if our Works Council renders adverse advice in connection with a proposed work force reduction in the Netherlands, but we nonetheless determine to proceed, we must temporarily suspend any action while the Works Council determines whether to appeal to the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal. This appeal process can cause a delay of several months and may require us to address any procedural inadequacies identified by the Court in the way we reached our decision. Such delays could impair our ability to reduce costs company-wide to levels comparable to those of our competitors. See Item 6.D. “Employees”. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Harm Our Results of Operations We are exposed to currency risks. We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Japanese yen and the euro as we incur manufacturing costs and price our systems predominantly in euro while a portion of our net sales and cost of sales is denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and liabilities and operating results are denominated in U.S. dollars, and a small portion of our assets, liabilities and operating results are denominated in currencies other than the euro and the U.S. dollar. Our consolidated financial statements are expressed in euro. Accordingly, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are exposed to fluctuations in various exchange rates. Furthermore, a strengthening of the euro particularly against the Japanese yen could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also see Item 5.A. “Operating Results, Foreign Exchange Management”, Item 5.F. “Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations”, Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. We May Be Unable to Make Desirable Acquisitions or to Integrate Successfully Any Businesses We Acquire Our future success may depend in part on the acquisition of businesses or technologies intended to complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. Our ability to complete such transactions may be hindered by a number of factors, including potential difficulties in obtaining government approvals. Any acquisition that we do make would pose risks related to the integration of the new business or technology with our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the benefits we expect from a particular acquisition or investment. Acquisitions may also strain our managerial and operational resources, as the challenge of managing new operations may divert our staff from monitoring and improving operations in our existing business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing operations and any businesses we acquire. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2008 8 Table of Contents Our Business and Future Success Depend on Our Ability to Attract and Retain a Sufficient Number of Adequately Educated and Skilled Employees Our business and future success significantly depends upon our employees, including a large number of highly qualified professionals, as well as our ability to attract and retain employees. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increasing complexity of our products results in a longer learning curve for new and existing employees leading to an inability to decrease cycle times and incurring significant additional costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The Price of Our Ordinary Shares is Volatile The current market price of our ordinary shares may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the future. In particular, the market price of our ordinary shares has in the past experienced significant fluctuation, including fluctuation that is unrelated to our performance. This fluctuation may continue in the future. Restrictions on Shareholder Rights May Dilute Voting Power Our Articles of Association provide that we are subject to the provisions of Netherlands law applicable to large corporations, called “structuurregime”. These provisions have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Supervisory Board. As a result, holders of ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our Supervisory Board than if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. Our authorized share capital also includes a class of cumulative preference shares and ASML has granted “Stichting Preferente Aandelen ASML”, a Netherlands foundation, an option to acquire, at their nominal value of EUR 0.02 per share, such cumulative preference shares. Exercise of the cumulative preference share option would effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one-half, which may discourage or significantly impede a third party from acquiring a majority of our voting shares. See further Item 6.C. “Board Practices” and Item 10.B. “Memorandum and Articles of Association”. 