D. Risk FactorsIn conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks and the impact they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the more relevant risks are described below. These risks are not the only ones that we face. Some risks may not yet be known to us and certain risks that we do not currently believe to be material could become material in the future. Risks related to the semiconductor industry The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and we may be adversely affected by any downturn As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, we are subject to the industry’s business cycles, of which the timing, duration and volatility are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical. Sales of our lithography systems depend in large part upon the level of capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. These capital expenditures depend upon a range of competitive and market factors, including: • The current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and for products utilizing semiconductors; • Semiconductor prices; • Semiconductor production costs and manufacturing capacity utilization of semiconductor manufacturers; • Semiconductor equipment industry capacity and utilization; • Changes in semiconductor inventory levels; • General economic conditions; and • Access to capital. Reductions or delays in capital equipment purchases by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 5In an industry downturn, our ability to maintain profitability will depend substantially on whether we are able to lower our costs and break-even level, which is the level of sales that we must reach in a year to achieve positive net income. If sales decrease significantly as a result of an industry downturn and we are unable to adjust our costs over the same period, our net income may decline significantly or we may suffer losses. As we need to keep certain levels of inventory on hand to meet anticipated product and service demand, we may also incur increased costs related to inventory obsolescence in an industry downturn, and such inventory obsolescence costs may be higher with our newer technology systems such as EUV. We have grown in terms of employees, facilities and inventories in recent years, so it may be even more difficult for us to reduce costs in order to respond to an industry downturn. In addition, industry downturns generally result in overcapacity, resulting in downward pressure on sales prices and impairment of assets, including inventories, intangible assets, and machinery and equipment, which in the past has had, and in the future could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current and future instability of the financial markets and the global economy in general can have a number of effects on our business, including (i) declining business and consumer confidence resulting in reduced, or delayed purchase of our products or shorter-term capital expenditures for our products or a delay in transition to newer technology tools; (ii) insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, (iii) an inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, delayed payments from our customers and/or customer insolvencies and (iv) other adverse effects that we cannot currently anticipate. If global economic and market conditions deteriorate, we are likely to experience material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, in anticipation of periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we must maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory and we must attract, hire, integrate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet customer demand. Our ability to predict the timing and magnitude of industry fluctuations is limited, and as our products become increasingly sophisticated, the lead-time required to successfully deliver our systems has grown considerably. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively increase our production capacity to respond to an increase in customer demand in an industry upturn resulting in lost sales, damage to customer relationships and we may lose market share. We are also subject to trends in the key end markets of our customers - Memory and Logic, each of which exhibit different levels of cyclicality. Trends in our end markets may be affected by a number of factors, including business conditions in their respective markets (or in the economy generally), consumer confidence, competition, and changing consumer demand. Decreased demand in the end-markets of any of our customers could cause our customers to reduce their purchases of our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will suffer if we or the industry do not respond rapidly to commercial and technological changes in the semiconductor industry The semiconductor manufacturing industry is subject to: •Rapid change towards more complex technologies; •Frequent new product introductions and enhancements; •Evolving industry standards; •Changes in customer requirements; and •Short product life cycles. Our success in developing new products and in enhancing our existing products depends on a variety of factors, including the successful management of our R&D programs and the timely completion of product development and design relative to competitors. If we do not develop and introduce new and enhanced systems at competitive prices and on a timely basis, our customers will not integrate our systems into the planning and design of new production facilities and upgrades of existing facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we are investing considerable financial and other resources to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, such as Immersion, EUV and Holistic Lithography. If we or our suppliers are unable to successfully develop and introduce these products and technologies, or if our customers do not fully adopt the new technologies, products or product enhancements due to a preference for more established or alternative new technologies and products, due to the failure to meet their development roadmaps which require our new technology or for any other reason, this could result in customers continuing to use existing technology tools and we may not recoup all of our investments in these technologies or products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 6The success of EUV, which we believe is critical for keeping pace with Moore’s Law, which postulates that the number of transistors on a chip doubles approximately every 18 to 24 months at equivalent costs, remains dependent on continuing technical advances by us and our suppliers. These advances include in particular advances in technology related to the light source, source power, system availability, and scanner performance, without which EUV tools cannot achieve the productivity and yield required to economically justify the higher price of these tools. A delay in the development of these tools or a delay in such tools meeting production requirements could discourage or result in much slower adoption of this EUV technology and could delay purchases of these tools. In addition, the introduction of alternative technologies or processes by our competitors that compete with EUV could discourage or result in much slower adoption of EUV technology. If the technologies that we pursue to assist our customers in producing smaller and more efficient chips are not as effective as those developed by our competitors, or if our customers adopt new technological architectures that are less focused on lithography, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we maintain in inventory a certain amount of parts and components for system production and when we stop producing a particular model in favor of newer models, there is a risk that this inventory of parts and components may become obsolete, particularly as a result of the rapid pace of technological change. In such cases, we seek to use such parts and components in new systems, but in case we are not able to do so, this can result in impairments of inventory. Many of these parts and components are particularly expensive and may only be used in a single type of system. Cadence for the introduction of new systems is lengthening Our lithography systems have become more complex and costly to develop and build. In addition, our customers have experienced delays in implementing their product roadmaps, which has resulted in delayed demand of new systems. These factors resulted in longer development cycles and a longer transition period (or cadence) both for our new systems and industry-wide, increasing the risk of a slowing down of the overall transition period for new systems as predicted by Moore's Law. A lengthening of the cadence for new system purchases by our customers could result in a slower adoption of EUV or any other new technology as a result of delays in the development of new tools or a change in the customer's product roadmaps or investment outlook. As a result of a lengthening of the cadence, our customers may purchase existing technology systems rather than new leading-edge systems or delay their investment in new systems to the extent that such investment is not economical or required given their product cycles. A lengthening of the cadence for the introduction of our new systems can also result in increased competition, as competitors may have more time to develop competing systems. In addition, longer cadence means we face increasing competition from manufacturers who produce systems with lower performance levels than our new systems. The change in cadence of our new systems could result in a decrease in the number of new systems or technology we sell in a given year, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Industry adoption of EUV technology may be delayed EUV represents the next-generation lithography technology for ASML, and we have made significant investments in EUV, including our 2013 acquisition of Cymer Corporation, to develop EUV technology. To date, we have only sold a limited number of EUV systems. There are a number of development milestones to be met with respect to EUV systems, and EUV has not yet been widely adopted by the semiconductor manufacturing industry. There are a number of factors that may inhibit or delay industry adoption of our EUV systems, including those set forth in this Risk Factors section. Any delay in industry adoption of our EUV systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, for our EUV systems which we sell as part of our commercial sales, we defer a portion of the revenues pending completion of performance milestones agreed with the customer, so to the extent that our systems fail to meet these milestones, our revenues and profitability in certain periods may be lower than anticipated. We face intense competition The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in our market are:•The technical performance characteristics of a lithography system; •The value of ownership of lithography systems based on purchase price, maintenance costs, throughput, and customer service and support costs; •The exchange rate of the euro against the functional currency of our competitors and our customers, particularly against the Japanese yen; •The strength and breadth of our portfolio of patents and other intellectual property rights; and •Our customers’ desire to obtain lithography equipment from more than one supplier.Our competitiveness increasingly depends upon our ability to develop new and enhanced semiconductor equipment that is competitively priced and introduced on a timely basis, as well as our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. See Item 4.B. "Business Overview - Intellectual Property", and Note 18 to the Financial Statements.ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 7We compete primarily with Nikon and Canon in respect of systems. Each of Nikon and Canon have substantial financial resources and broad patent portfolios. Each continues to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics that compete directly with our products, which may cause a decline in our sales or a loss of market acceptance for our lithography systems. In addition, adverse market conditions, industry overcapacity or a decrease in the value of the Japanese yen in relation to the euro or the US dollar, could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and lower sales which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk of a decline in sales if our products and services do not meet our customers' standards, which could result in decline in demand from or loss of such customers. We also compete with providers of software applications that support or enhance complex patterning solutions, including lithography, such as KLA-Tencor Corporation. These applications effectively compete with our holistic lithography offering, which has become an increasingly significant part of our business. In addition to competitors in lithography, we may face competition with respect to alternative technologies. If we fail to keep pace with Moore’s Law or in the event the delivery of new technology is delayed, our customers may opt for other solutions in IC manufacturing as a substitute for purchasing our products. Furthermore, a number of business combinations and strategic partnerships among our customers and research partners in the semiconductor industry have occurred recently, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers and research partners could affect industry dynamics and could adversely affect our business and margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to ASMLThe number of systems we can produce is limited by our dependence on a limited number of suppliers of key components We rely on outside vendors for components and subassemblies used in our systems including the design thereof, each of which is obtained from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, reduced control over pricing and the risk of untimely delivery of these components and subassemblies. The number of lithography systems we are able to produce may be limited by the production capacity of Zeiss. Zeiss is our single supplier of lenses, mirrors, illuminators, collectors and other critical optical components (which we refer to as optics). If Zeiss were unable to maintain and increase production levels or if we are unable to maintain our business relationship with Zeiss in the future we could be unable to fulfill orders, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Zeiss were to terminate its relationship with us or if Zeiss were unable to maintain production of optics over a prolonged period, we would effectively cease to be able to conduct our business. See Item 4.B. "Business Overview—Manufacturing, Logistics and Suppliers". In addition to Zeiss’ current position as a supplier of optics, a number of other critical components such as drive lasers included in our CO2 lasers used in our EUV systems are available from only a limited number of suppliers. Designing and manufacturing some of these components and subassemblies that we use in our manufacturing processes is an extremely complex process and could result in delays by our suppliers. Lead-times in obtaining components have increased as our products have become more complex, and our failure to adequately predict demand for our systems or any delays in the shipment of components can result in insufficient supply of components or, conversely, excess inventory. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate deliveries of components or subassemblies, or any other circumstance that requires us to seek alternative sources of supply, could significantly hinder our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as we develop new technologies, such as EUV, this requires our suppliers to participate in the development process so that the components they supply will meet the requirements of our development roadmap, and this may require significant R&D spending and investment on the part of our suppliers, particularly with the long lead-time required for EUV components. If our suppliers are unable to meet our technological and supply demands in line with our development roadmap, this may delay the development and introduction of new products. In addition, our suppliers may not have or may not be willing to spend sufficient financial resources to make the necessary R&D expenditures and investments to enable them (and therefore us) to maintain their development roadmaps and ultimately meet our supply demands. In this case, we may be required to co-invest with our suppliers to continue the R&D required to continue development roadmaps. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 8A high percentage of net sales is derived from a few customers Historically, we have sold a substantial number of lithography systems to a limited number of customers. We expect customer concentration to increase because of continuing consolidation in the semiconductor manufacturing industry. Consequently, while the identity of our largest customers may vary from year to year, sales may remain concentrated among relatively few customers in any particular year. In 2015, recognized net sales to our largest customer accounted for EUR 1,633.6 million, or 26.0 percent of net sales, compared with EUR 1,532.1 million, or 26.2 percent of net sales, in 2014. The loss of any significant customer or any significant reduction in orders by a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as a result of our limited number of customers, credit risk on our receivables is concentrated. Our three largest customers (based on net sales) accounted for EUR 704.1 million, or 58.3 percent of accounts receivable and finance receivables on December 31, 2015, compared with EUR 643.2 million, or 49.3 percent on December 31, 2014. As a result of the foregoing risks, business failure or insolvency of one of our main customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive most of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of products We derive most of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of lithography equipment systems (169 units in 2015 and 136 units in 2014), with an ASP per system in 2015 of EUR 25.1 million (EUR 28.5 million for new systems and EUR 5.1 million for used systems) and an ASP per system in 2014 of EUR 31.2 million (EUR 35.6 million for new systems and EUR 5.8 million for used systems). As a result, the timing of shipment and recognition of revenue for a particular reporting period from a small number of system sales may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in that period. Specifically, the failure to receive anticipated orders, or delays in shipments near the end of a particular reporting period, due, for example, to: •A downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry; •Volatility in the Logic and Memory end-markets as a result of oversupply and undersupply; •Shipment rescheduling; •Cancellation or order push-back by customers; •Unexpected manufacturing difficulties; or •Delays in deliveries by suppliers may cause net sales in a particular reporting period to fall significantly below net sales in previous periods or below our expected net sales, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. In particular, our published quarterly earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may vary in the future and reduce our visibility on future sales for the reasons discussed above. The time window for new product introduction is short and is accompanied by potential design and production delays and by significant costs The development and initial production, installation and enhancement of the systems we produce is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs of a nature typically associated with the introduction and transition to full-scale manufacturing of complex capital equipment. While we expect and plan for a corresponding learning-curve effect in our product development cycle, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems and to ensure full performance to specifications. Moreover, we anticipate that this learning-curve effect will continue to present increasingly difficult challenges with each new generation of our products as a result of increasing technological complexity. In particular, the development of an EUV volume production system is dependent on, and subject to the successful implementation of, among other things, technology related to the light source, source power, system availability, scanner performance and other technologies specific to EUV. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we anticipate in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the market to accept technology enhancements, our customers, in many cases, must upgrade their existing technology capabilities. Such upgrades from established technology may not be available to our customers to enable volume production using our new technology enhancements. This could result in our customers not purchasing, or pushing back or canceling orders for our technology enhancements, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on our suppliers to maintain their development roadmaps to enable us to introduce new technologies on a timely basis, and if they are unable to keep pace whether due to technological factors, lack of financial resources or otherwise, this could prevent us from meeting our development roadmaps. Additionally, in connection with our EUV production, we have made advanced payments to suppliers that we may not recoup if we do not reach expected EUV sales levels in the future. We may make similar advance payments (or other investments in our suppliers) to suppliers in connection with EUV or other technologies we develop, and we may not recoup those advanced payments or other investments (e.g. if expected sales are not met). See Note 9 to our Financial Statements.ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 9As lithography technologies become more complex, the success of our R&D programs becomes more uncertain, while their cost rises Our lithography systems have become increasingly complex, and accordingly, the costs to develop new products and technologies have increased, and we expect such costs to continue to increase. This increase in costs requires us to continue obtaining sufficient funding for our R&D programs. For example, we obtained partial funding for our EUV R&D program through the CCIP. We may however, be unable to obtain this type of funding from customers in the future, in which case we may be unable or we may determine not to fund R&D investments necessary to maintain our technological leadership. The increasing complexity of new technologies, which leads to increasing cost of R&D programs for new technologies, also increases the risk that a new product or technology may not be successful. Furthermore, as the innovation cycle becomes more complex, developing new technology, including EUV technology, requires increased R&D investments by our suppliers in order to meet the technology demands of us and our customers. Our suppliers may not have, or may not be willing to invest in, the resources necessary to continue the development of the new technologies to the extent such investments are necessary, which may result in our contributing funds to such R&D programs or limiting the R&D investments that we can undertake. Failure to adequately protect the intellectual property rights upon which we depend could harm our business We rely on intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology. However, we face the risk that such measures could prove to be inadequate because: •Intellectual property laws may not sufficiently support our proprietary rights or may change in the future in a manner adverse to us; •Patent rights may not be granted or interpreted as we expect; •Patents will expire which may result in key technology becoming widely available that may hurt our competitive position; •The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary rights may not be successful; and •Third parties may be able to develop or obtain patents for similar competing technology. In addition, legal proceedings may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement. Any such proceedings may result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, and, if decided unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption in our information technology systems, including incidents related to cyber security, could adversely affect our business operations We rely on the accuracy, availability and security of our information technology systems. Despite the measures that we have implemented, including those related to cybersecurity, our systems could be breached or damaged by computer viruses and systems attacks, natural or man-made incidents, disasters or unauthorized physical or electronic access. From time to time we experience cybersecurity attacks on our information technology systems, these attacks are increasing and becoming more sophisticated, and may be perpetrated by computer hackers, cyber terrorists or other corporate espionage. These attacks include malicious software (malware), attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information (including confidential information relating to our customers and suppliers), and corruption of data. To date, none of the attacks we have experienced has materially impacted our business or operations. Nevertheless, any system failure, accident or security breach could result in business disruption, theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets (including our proprietary technology), customer or supplier information, unauthorized access to personnel information, or corruption of our data and of our systems. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures we have implemented will be sufficient to prevent a system failure, accident or security breach from occurring. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data or proprietary technology or customer data is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, this could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with customers and suppliers and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or repair the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. In addition, from time to time, we implement updates to our information technology systems and software, which can disrupt or shutdown our information technology systems. We may not be able to successfully integrate and launch these new systems as planned without disruption to our operations. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Defending against intellectual property claims brought by others could harm our business In the course of our business, we are subject to claims by third parties alleging that our products or processes infringe upon their intellectual property rights. If successful, such claims could limit or prohibit us from developing our technology and manufacturing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10In addition, our customers may be subject to claims of infringement from third parties, alleging that our products used by such customers in the manufacture of semiconductor products and/or the processes relating to the use of our products infringe one or more patents issued to such third parties. If such claims were successful, we could be required to indemnify customers for some or all of any losses incurred or damages assessed against them as a result of such infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may incur substantial licensing or settlement costs, which although potentially strengthening or expanding our intellectual property rights or limiting our exposure to intellectual property claims of third parties, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From late 2001 through 2004, ASML was a party to a series of civil litigations and administrative proceedings in which Nikon alleged ASML’s infringement of Nikon patents relating to lithography. ASML in turn filed claims against Nikon. Pursuant to agreements executed on December 10, 2004, ASML and Nikon agreed to settle all pending worldwide patent litigation between the companies. The settlement included an exchange of releases, a patent cross-license agreement related to lithography equipment used to manufacture semiconductor devices, and payments to Nikon by ASML. Under the terms of the Nikon Cross-License Agreement, beginning on January 1, 2015, the parties may bring suit for infringement of certain patents subject to the agreement, including any infringement that occurred from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014 (the "Cross-License Transition Period"). Damages resulting from claims for patent infringement occurring during the Cross-License Transition Period are limited to three percent of the net sales price of applicable licensed products including optical components. For more information on the Nikon Cross-License Agreement, see Item 4.B. "Business Overview - Intellectual Property." Accordingly, from January 1, 2015, both Nikon and we are no longer prohibited under the agreement from bringing claims against each other on the basis of infringement of certain patents subject to the Nikon Cross-License Agreement. If Nikon files suit against us alleging patent infringement, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses, and we may not prevail. Similarly, if we file suit against Nikon alleging patent infringement, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses, and we may not prevail. Patent litigation is complex and may extend for a protracted period of time, giving rise to the potential for both substantial costs and diverting the attention of key management and technical personnel. Potential adverse outcomes from patent litigation may include, without limitation, payment of significant monetary damages, injunctive relief prohibiting the sale of products, and/or settlement involving significant costs to be paid by us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We are unable to predict at this time whether any such patent suit will in fact materialize, or, if so, what its outcome might be. We are subject to risks in our international operations The majority of our sales are made to customers outside Europe. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in some of those regions: •Potentially adverse tax consequences; •Unfavorable political or economic environments; •Unexpected legal or regulatory changes; •An inability to effectively protect intellectual property; and •Adverse effects of foreign currency fluctuations. If we are unable to manage successfully the risks inherent in our international activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, 24.7 percent of our 2015 net sales and 19.2 percent of our 2014 net sales were derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China asserts sovereignty over Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwanese government. Changes in relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, Taiwanese government policies and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political, economic or social environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain of our manufacturing facilities as well as customers are located in South Korea. There are tensions between the Republic of South Korea and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) since the division of the Korean Peninsula following World War II. The worsening of relations between those two countries or the outbreak of war on the Korean Peninsula could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the installation and servicing of our products requires us to travel to our customers’ premises. Natural disasters could affect our ability to do so. For example, the Japanese earthquake in 2011 resulted in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers in Japan. Natural disasters in areas where our customers are located could prevent or disrupt the installation or servicing of our systems. In addition, we have customers located in Israel. If the geopolitical environment prevents travel to Israel, it could result in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11Lastly, if there is a pandemic outbreak located near any of our customers, it could result in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers near the outbreak. Therefore, if there is a natural disaster, geopolitical conflict or pandemic that prevents our ability to travel to our customers’ premises, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely effected. We are dependent on the continued operation of a limited number of manufacturing facilities All of our manufacturing activities, including subassembly, final assembly and system testing, take place in cleanroom facilities in Veldhoven, the Netherlands, in Wilton, Connecticut and in San Diego, California, both in the United States, in Pyeongtaek, South-Korea and in Linkou, Taiwan. These facilities may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, fire, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. We cannot ensure that alternative production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such capacity was available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our key suppliers, including Zeiss, have a limited number of manufacturing facilities, the disruption of which may significantly and adversely affect our production capacity. Because of labor laws and practices, any workforce reductions that we may seek to implement in order to reduce costs company-wide may be delayed or suspended The semiconductor market is highly cyclical and as a consequence we may need to implement workforce reductions in case of a downturn, in order to adapt to such market changes. In accordance with labor laws and practices applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a reduction of any significance may be subject to formal procedures that can delay or may result in the modification of our planned workforce reductions. For example, ASML Netherlands B.V., our operating subsidiary in the Netherlands, has a Works Council, as required by Dutch law. If the Works Council renders contrary advice in connection with a proposed workforce reduction in the Netherlands, but we nonetheless determine to proceed, we must temporarily suspend any action while the Works Council determines whether to appeal to the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal. This appeal process can cause a delay of several months and may require us to address any procedural inadequacies identified by the Court in the way we reached our decision. Such delays could impair our ability to reduce costs company-wide to levels comparable to those of our competitors. Also see Item 6.D. "Employees".Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could harm our results of operations We are exposed to currency risks. We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the US dollar, Japanese yen and the euro, as we incur costs of sales predominantly in euros with portions of our net sales and cost of sales also denominated in US dollars. In addition, a portion of our sales and costs are denominated in US dollars, particularly following our acquisition of Cymer in 2013, and a small portion of our operating results are denominated in currencies other than the euro and the US dollar. Our Financial Statements are expressed in euros. Accordingly, our results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the euro and such other currencies, and changes in currency exchange rates can result in losses in our Financial Statements. In general, our customers generally run their businesses in US dollars and therefore a weakening of the US dollar against the euro might impact the ability or desire of our customers to purchase our products. Furthermore, a strengthening of the euro particularly against the Japanese yen could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to make desirable acquisitions or to integrate successfully any businesses we acquire Our future success may depend in part on the acquisition of businesses or technologies intended to complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. Our ability to complete such transactions may be hindered by a number of factors, including potential difficulties in obtaining government approvals. Any acquisition that we do make would pose risks related to the integration of the new business or technology with our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the benefits we expect from a particular acquisition or investment. Acquisitions may also strain our managerial and operational resources, as the challenge of managing new operations may divert our management from day-to-day operations of our existing business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing operations and any businesses we acquire. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, anti-trust regulators may impose conditions on us, including requirements to divest assets or other conditions that could make it difficult for us to integrate the businesses that we acquire. For example, in connection with the Cymer acquisition we have agreed to maintain Cymer Light Sources as a stand-alone business. We may also face challenges with integrating any business we acquire into our organization. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 12As a result of acquisitions, we have recorded, and may continue to record, a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against earnings, which could materially reduce our reported results of operations in future periods. Our business and future success depend on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of adequately educated and skilled employees Our business and future success significantly depends upon our employees, including a large number of highly qualified professionals, as well as our ability to attract and retain employees. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Our R&D programs require a significant number of qualified employees. If we are unable to attract sufficient numbers of qualified employees, this could affect our ability to conduct our research and development programs on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we lose key employees or officers to retirement, illness or otherwise, particularly a number of our highly qualified professionals and/or senior management, we may not be able to timely find a suitable replacement. Moreover, as a result of the uniqueness and complexity of our technology, qualified engineers capable of working on our systems are scarce and generally not available (e.g. from other industries or companies). As a result, we must educate and train our employees to work on our systems. Therefore, a loss of a number of key professionals and/or senior management can be disruptive, costly and time consuming. Our R&D activities with respect to new technology systems such as EUV have increased our need for qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is significant in the area surrounding our headquarters in Veldhoven, the Netherlands and in the other regions where our facilities are located, where a number of high technology companies are located. Furthermore, the increasing complexity of our products results in a longer learning-curve for new and existing employees and suppliers leading to an inability to decrease cycle times and may result in the incurrence of significant additional costs. Our suppliers face similar risks in attracting qualified employees, including attracting employees in connection with R&D programs that will support our R&D programs and technology developments. To the extent that our suppliers are unable to attract qualified employees, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in taxation could affect our future profitability We are subject to income taxes in the Netherlands and numerous other jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. Changes in tax legislation in the countries where we operate can affect our effective tax rate. For example, the OECD has recently embarked on a project to propose measures against so called BEPS, which the OECD describes as tax planning strategies that exploit gaps and mismatches in tax rules to reduce overall corporate tax. In October 2015, the OECD published 15 reports on various BEPS topics. These reports introduced new tax concepts which has resulted, and is expected to result, in substantial changes to tax legislation in the countries in which ASML operates. In particular, one of the OECD BEPS reports introduces minimum requirements for Patent Box Regimes. In 2007, a Patent Box Regime was introduced in The Netherlands, which provides that income generated from qualifying innovative activities is effectively taxed at a beneficial tax rate of currently 5% rather than the Dutch statutory tax rate of 25%. The Patent Box Regime is called "Innovation Box" in The Netherlands legislation. A portion of our earnings currently qualifies for beneficial tax treatment under the Dutch Innovation Box. In order to meet the minimum requirements for Patent Box regimes mandated by the OECD BEPS report, the Dutch Innovation Box will have to be amended by July 1, 2016. Changes in Dutch tax laws to comply with the OECD BEPS report may reduce ASML’s current benefits under the Dutch Innovation Box. Changes to tax legislation of jurisdictions ASML operates in may adversely impact ASML’s tax position and consequently our net income. In addition, jurisdictions levy corporate income tax at different rates. The distribution of our systems sales over the various jurisdictions in which we operate may vary from year to year, resulting in a different mix of corporate income tax rates applicable to our profits, which can affect the world wide effective tax rate for ASML. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13Hazardous substances are used in the production and operation of our systems and failure to comply with applicable regulations or failure to implement appropriate practices for customer and employee environment, health and safety could subject us to significant liabilities Hazardous substances are used in the production and operation of our lithography systems, which subjects us to a variety of governmental regulations relating to environmental protection and employee and product health and safety, including the transport, use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. In addition, operating our machines (which use lasers and other potentially hazardous tools) is dangerous and can result in injury. The failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in substantial fines being imposed on us or other adverse consequences. Additionally, our products have become increasingly complex. The increasing complexity requires us to invest in continued risk assessments and development of appropriate preventative and protective measures for health and safety for both our employees (in connection with the production and installation of our systems) and our customers’ employees (in connection with the operation of our systems). There can be no assurance that the health and safety practices we develop will be adequate to mitigate all health and safety risks. Failing to comply with applicable regulations or the failure of our implemented practices for customer and employee health and safety could subject us to significant liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our ordinary shares We may not declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts in any given year We aim to pay an annual dividend that will be stable or growing over time. Annually, the BoM will, upon prior approval from the SB, submit a proposal to the AGM with respect to the amount of dividend to be declared with respect to the prior year. The dividend proposal in any given year will be subject to the availability of distributable profits or retained earnings and may be affected by, among other factors, the BoM’s views on our potential future liquidity requirements, including for investments in production capacity, the funding of our R&D programs and for acquisition opportunities that may arise from time to time; and by future changes in applicable income tax and corporate laws. Accordingly, the BoM may decide to propose not to pay a dividend or pay a lower dividend with respect to any particular year in the future, which could have a negative effect on our share price. Restrictions on shareholder rights may dilute voting power Our Articles of Association provide that we are subject to the provisions of Dutch law applicable to large corporations, called "structuurregime". These provisions have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our SB. As a result, holders of ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our SB than if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. Our authorized share capital also includes a class of cumulative preference shares and we have granted "Stichting Preferente Aandelen ASML", a Dutch foundation, an option to acquire, at their nominal value of EUR 0.09 per share, such cumulative preference shares. Exercise of the preference share option would effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one-half, which may discourage or significantly impede a third party from acquiring a majority of our voting shares. See Item 6.C. "Board Practices" and Item 10.B. "Memorandum and Articles of Association".Participating customers in our Customer Co-Investment Program together own a significant amount of our ordinary shares and their interests may not coincide with the interests of our other shareholders In the CCIP, the Participating Customers, being Intel, Samsung and TSMC, through certain wholly-owned subsidiaries, acquired in aggregate 96,566,077 ASML shares, which represented 23% of our outstanding shares at that time. In the CCIP, all of the Participating Customers agreed to a lock-up arrangement with us which expired in the first half of 2015. As the lock-up has now expired, the Participating Customers are permitted to sell their shares and the Stichting that held TSMC's shares in the CCIP has informed ASML that all of the ASML shares acquired by TSMC have been sold (20,992,625 ASML shares). Intel and Samsung are now presumed to own a total of 75,573,452 ASML shares based on the number of ASML shares initially acquired. Any sales by the Participating Customers are subject to the following limitations: any market sales are limited in any 6 month period to a total of 4% or 1.5% of our disclosed outstanding shares, in the case of Intel and Samsung, respectively, but such limitations do not apply to underwritten sales or block trades. The sale of a large number of these shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. See Item 7.A. "Major Shareholders".ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2015 14Additionally, the interests of the Participating Customers who continue to own ASML shares may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our shares. The shares acquired by the Participating Customers are held by Dutch foundations which have issued depositary receipts in respect thereof and the participating customers may only vote those shares in General Meetings in exceptional circumstances, including the authorization of certain significant share issuances and share repurchases, the approval of a significant change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business, any amendment to ASML’s Articles of Association that would materially affect the specific voting rights of the Participating Customers or that would cause a significant change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business, the dissolution of ASML, and any merger or demerger which would result in a material change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business. When such exceptional circumstances occur, the Participating Customers who continue to own ASML shares, and in particular Intel (due to the percentage of our shares that Intel owns), will be able to influence matters requiring approval by the General Meeting and may vote their ordinary shares in a way with which other shareholders may not agree. 