D. Risk Factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks and the impact they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the more relevant risks are described below. These risks are not the only ones that we face. Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The Semiconductor Industry is Highly Cyclical and We May Be Adversely Affected by Any Downturn As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, we are subject to the industry’s business cycles, of which the timing, duration and volatility are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical. Sales of our lithography systems depend in large part upon the level of capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. These capital expenditures depend upon a range of competitive and market factors, including: • The current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and for products utilizing semiconductors; • Semiconductor prices; • Semiconductor production costs; • Changes in semiconductor inventory levels; • General economic conditions; and • Access to capital. Reductions or delays in capital equipment purchases by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 5 Table of Contents In an industry downturn, our ability to maintain profitability will depend substantially on whether we are able to lower our costs and break-even level, which is the level of sales that we must reach in a year to achieve positive net income. If sales decrease significantly as a result of an industry downturn and we are unable to adjust our costs over the same period, our net income may decline significantly or we may suffer losses. As we need to keep certain levels of inventory on hand to meet anticipated product and service demand, we may also incur increased costs related to inventory obsolescence in an industry downturn. In addition, industry downturns generally result in overcapacity, resulting in downward pressure on sales prices and impairment of machinery and equipment, which in the past has had, and in the future could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing financial crises that have affected the international banking system and global financial markets since 2008 have been in many respects unprecedented. Concerns persist over the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future obligations, the overall stability of the euro, and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These potential developments or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, remaining concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally, and the instability of the financial markets and the global economy in general could result in a number of follow-on effects on our business, including (i) declining business and consumer confidence resulting in reduced, or delayed purchase of our products or shorter-term capital expenditures for our products; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, (ii) an inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, delayed payments from our customers and/or customer insolvencies and (iii) other adverse effects that we cannot currently anticipate. If global economic and market conditions deteriorate, we are likely to experience material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, in anticipation of periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we must maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory and we must attract, hire, integrate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet customer demand. Our ability to predict the timing and magnitude of industry fluctuations is limited and our products require significant lead-time to successfully complete. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively increase our production capacity to respond to an increase in customer demand in an industry upturn resulting in lost sales, damage to customer relationships and we may lose market share. Our Business Will Suffer If We Do Not Respond Rapidly to Commercial and Technological Changes in the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor manufacturing industry is subject to: • Rapid change towards more complex technologies; • Frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • Evolving industry standards; • Changes in customer requirements; and • Continued shortening of product life cycles. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology. Our success in developing new products and in enhancing our existing products depends on a variety of factors, including the successful management of our R&D programs and the timely completion of product development and design relative to competitors. If we do not develop and introduce new and enhanced systems at competitive prices and on a timely basis, our customers will not integrate our systems into the planning and design of new production facilities and upgrades of existing facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we are investing considerable financial and other resources to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, such as EUV, Immersion and holistic lithography. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce these products and technologies, or if our customers do not fully adopt the new technologies, products or product enhancements due to a preference for more established or alternative new technologies and products or for any other reason, we may not recoup all of our investments in these technologies or products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 6 Table of Contents The success of EUV remains particularly dependent on light source availability and continuing related technical advances by us and our suppliers, as well as infrastructure developments in masks and photoresists, without which EUV tools cannot achieve the productivity and yield required to economically justify the higher price of these tools. A delay in the developments of these tools could discourage or result in much slower adoption of this technology. If the technologies that we pursue to assist our customers in producing smaller and more efficient chips, are not as effective as those developed by our competitors, or if our customers adopt new technological architectures that are less focused on lithography, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Intense Competition The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in our market are: • The technical performance characteristics of a lithography system; • The value of ownership of that system based on its purchase price, maintenance costs, productivity, and customer service and support costs; • The exchange rate of the euro particularly against the Japanese yen which results in varying prices and margins; • The strength and breadth of our portfolio of patents and other intellectual property rights; and • Our customers’ desire to obtain lithography equipment from more than one supplier. Our competitiveness increasingly depends upon our ability to develop new and enhanced semiconductor equipment that is competitively priced and introduced on a timely basis, as well as our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview – Intellectual Property”, Note 11 and Note 19 to the Financial Statements. We compete primarily with Nikon and to a lesser degree with Canon. Both Nikon and Canon have substantial financial resources and broad patent portfolios. Each continues to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics that compete directly with our products, which may cause a decline in our sales or a loss of market acceptance for our lithography systems. In addition, adverse market conditions, industry overcapacity or a decrease in the value of the Japanese yen in relation to the euro or the U.S. dollar, could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to competitors in lithography, we may face competition with respect to alternative technologies for the non- critical layers or for all layers. If we fail to keep pace with Moore’s law, which postulates that the number of transistors on a chip doubles approximately every 18 to 24 months at equivalent marginal costs, or in the event the delivery of new technology is delayed, our customers may opt for other solutions in IC manufacturing as a substitute for purchasing our products. Also, in the future the IC industry may not find it economically feasible to maintain the pace of Moore’s law through the use of lithography systems, which could result in our customers choosing other solutions than lithography for IC manufacturing. If the pace of Moore’s law is not maintained, this could also result in the IC industry utilizing fewer leading technology systems, which could result in lower sales and margins. Risks Related to ASML The Number of Systems We Can Produce Is Limited by Our Dependence on a Limited Number of Suppliers of Key Components We rely on outside vendors for the components and subassemblies used in our systems, each of which is obtained from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and the risk of untimely delivery of these components and subassemblies. The number of lithography systems we are able to produce may be limited by the production capacity of Zeiss. Zeiss is our single supplier of lenses, collectors and other critical optical components. If Zeiss were unable to maintain and increase production levels or if we are unable to maintain our business relationship with Zeiss in the future we could be unable to fulfill orders, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Zeiss were to terminate its relationship with us or if Zeiss were unable to maintain production of lenses over a prolonged period, we would effectively cease to be able to conduct our business. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview – Manufacturing, Logistics and Suppliers”. In addition to Zeiss’ current position, the CO2 lasers used in our third-generation (NXE:3300B) EUV systems are available from only a limited number of suppliers. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 7 Table of Contents Manufacturing some of these components and subassemblies that we use in our manufacturing processes is an extremely complex process and could result in delays by our suppliers. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate deliveries of components or subassemblies, or any other circumstance that requires us to seek alternative sources of supply, could significantly hinder our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A High Percentage of Net Sales Is Derived from a Few Customers Historically, we have sold a substantial number of lithography systems to a limited number of customers. We expect customer concentration to increase because of continuing consolidation in the semiconductor manufacturing industry. Consequently, while the identity of our largest customers may vary from year to year, we expect sales to remain concentrated among relatively few customers in any particular year. In 2013, recognized sales to our largest customer accounted for EUR 2,058.6 million, or 39.2 percent of net sales, compared with EUR 1,236.1 million, or 26.1 percent of net sales, in 2012. The loss of any significant customer or any significant reduction in orders by a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as a result of our limited number of customers, credit risk on our receivables is concentrated. Our three largest customers (based on net sales) accounted for EUR 861.4 million, or 73.3 percent of accounts receivable and finance receivables at December 31, 2013, compared with EUR 535.1 million, or 58.9 percent at December 31, 2012. As a result, business failure or insolvency of one of our main customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Derive Most of Our Revenues from the Sale of a Relatively Small Number of Systems We derive most of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of lithography equipment systems (157 units in 2013 and 170 units in 2012), with an ASP per system in 2013 of EUR 25.4 million (EUR 27.4 million for new systems and EUR 6.9 million for used systems) and an ASP per system in 2012 of EUR 22.4 million (EUR 24.8 million for new systems and EUR 7.6 million for used systems). As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a particular reporting period from a small number of system sales may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in that period. Specifically, the failure to receive anticipated orders, or delays in shipments near the end of a particular reporting period, due, for example, to: • A downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry; • Unanticipated shipment rescheduling; • Cancellation or order push-back by customers; • Unexpected manufacturing difficulties; or • Delays in deliveries by suppliers may cause net sales in a particular reporting period to fall significantly below net sales in previous periods or below our expected net sales, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. In particular, our published quarterly earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may vary in the future for the reasons discussed above. The Pace of Introduction of Our New Products Is Accelerating and Is Accompanied by Potential Design and Production Delays and by Significant Costs The development and initial production, installation and enhancement of the systems we produce is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs of a nature typically associated with the introduction and transition to full-scale manufacturing of complex capital equipment. While we expect and plan for a corresponding learning-curve effect in our product development cycle, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems and to ensure full performance to specifications. Moreover, we anticipate that this learning-curve effect will continue to present increasingly difficult challenges with each new generation of our products as a result of increasing technological complexity. In particular, the development of an EUV volume production system is dependent on, and subject to the successful implementation of, technology related to the light source and other technologies specific to EUV. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we anticipate in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the market to accept technology enhancements, our customers, in many cases, must upgrade their existing technology capabilities. Such upgrades from established technology may not be available to our customers to enable volume production using our new technology enhancements. This could result in our customers not purchasing, or pushing back or canceling orders for our technology enhancements, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 8 Table of Contents As Lithography Technologies become More Complex, our R&D Programs become More Risky and More Expensive Our lithography systems have become increasingly complex, and accordingly, the costs to develop new products and technologies have increased, and we expect such costs to continue to increase. This increase in costs requires us to continue obtaining sufficient funding for our R&D programs. For example, we obtained funding for our 450mm and EUV R&D programs through the CCIP. We may however, be unable to obtain this type of funding from customers in the future, in which case we may be unable to fund R&D investments necessary to maintain our technological leadership. The increasing cost of R&D programs for new technologies also increases the risk that a new product or technology may not be successful, which could result in significant costs not being recovered. Furthermore, as the innovation cycle becomes more complex, developing new technology requires increased R&D investments by our suppliers in order to meet the technology demands of us and our customers. Our suppliers may not have, or may not be willing to invest, the resources necessary to continue the development of the new technologies to the extent such investments are necessary, which may result in our contributing funds to such R&D programs or limiting the R&D programs we undertake. Failure to Adequately Protect the Intellectual Property Rights Upon Which We Depend Could Harm Our Business We rely on intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology. However, we face the risk that such measures could prove to be inadequate because: • Intellectual property laws may not sufficiently support our proprietary rights or may change in the future in a manner adverse to us; • Patent rights may not be granted or construed as we expect; • Patents will expire which may result in key technology becoming widely available that may hurt our competitive position; • The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary rights may not be successful; and • Third parties may be able to develop or obtain patents for similar competing technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement. Any such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, and, if decided unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Defending Against Intellectual Property Claims Brought by Others Could Harm Our Business In the course of our business, we are subject to claims by third parties alleging that our products or processes infringe upon their intellectual property rights. If successful, such claims could limit or prohibit us from developing our technology and manufacturing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our customers may be subject to claims of infringement from third parties, alleging that our products used by such customers in the manufacture of semiconductor products and/or the processes relating to the use of our products infringe one or more patents issued to such parties. If such claims were successful, we could be required to indemnify customers for some or all of any losses incurred or damages assessed against them as a result of such infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may incur substantial licensing or settlement costs, which although potentially strengthening or expanding our intellectual property rights or limiting our exposure to intellectual property claims of third parties, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From late 2001 through 2004, ASML was party to a series of civil litigations and administrative proceedings in which Nikon alleged ASML’s infringement of Nikon patents relating to lithography. ASML in turn filed claims against Nikon. Pursuant to agreements executed on December 10, 2004, ASML and Nikon agreed to settle all pending worldwide patent litigation between the companies. The settlement included an exchange of releases, a patent Cross-License agreement related to lithography equipment used to manufacture semiconductor devices and payments to Nikon by ASML. Beginning on January 1, 2015, the parties may bring suit for infringement of patents subject to the Nikon Cross-License Agreement, including any infringement that occurred during the Cross-License Transition Period. Damages resulting from claims for patent infringement occurring during the Cross-License Transition Period are limited to three percent of the net sales price of products found to infringe valid and enforceable patents. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Risks in Our International Operations The majority of our sales are made to customers outside Europe. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in some of those regions: • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Unfavorable political or economic environments; • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes; • An inability to effectively protect intellectual property; and • Adverse effects of foreign currency fluctuations. If we are unable to manage successfully the risks inherent in our international activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, 42.4 percent of our 2013 net sales and 31.3 percent of our 2012 net sales were derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China asserts sovereignty over Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwanese government. Changes in relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, Taiwanese government policies and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political, economic or social environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the installation and servicing of our products requires us to travel to our customers premises. Natural disasters could affect our ability to do so. For example, the Japanese earthquake in 2011 resulted in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers in Japan. Natural disasters in areas where our customers are located could prevent or disrupt the installation or servicing of our systems. We Are Dependent on the Continued Operation of a Limited Number of Manufacturing Facilities All of our manufacturing activities, including subassembly, final assembly and system testing, take place in clean room facilities in Veldhoven, the Netherlands, in Wilton, Connecticut and in San Diego, California, both in the United States, in Pyongtaek-City, South-Korea and in Linkou, Taiwan. These facilities may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, fire, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. We cannot ensure that alternative production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such capacity was available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our key suppliers, including Zeiss, have a limited number of manufacturing facilities, the disruption of which may significantly and adversely affect our production capacity. Because of Labor Laws and Practices, Any Workforce Reductions That We May Seek to Implement in Order to Reduce Costs Company-Wide May Be Delayed or Suspended The semiconductor market is highly cyclical and as a consequence we may need to implement workforce reductions in case of a downturn, in order to adapt to such market changes. In accordance with labor laws and practices applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a reduction of any significance may be subject to formal procedures that can delay or may result in the modification of our planned workforce reductions. For example, ASML Netherlands B.V., our operating subsidiary in the Netherlands, has a Works Council, as required by Dutch law. If the Works Council renders contrary advice in connection with a proposed workforce reduction in the Netherlands, but we nonetheless determine to proceed, we must temporarily suspend any action while the Works Council determines whether to appeal to the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal. This appeal process can cause a delay of several months and may require us to address any procedural inadequacies identified by the Court in the way we reached our decision. Such delays could impair our ability to reduce costs company-wide to levels comparable to those of our competitors. Also see Item 6.D “Employees”. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Harm Our Results of Operations We are exposed to currency risks. We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Japanese yen and the euro, as we incur manufacturing costs for our systems predominantly in euros while portions of our net sales and cost of sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen. In addition, a portion of our assets and liabilities and operating results are denominated in U.S. dollars, and a small portion of our assets, liabilities and operating results are denominated in currencies other than the euro and the U.S. dollar. Our Financial Statements are expressed in euros. Accordingly, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the euro and such other currencies. In general, our customers generally run their businesses in U.S. dollars and therefore a weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro might impact the ability or desire of our customers to purchase our products. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 10 Table of Contents Furthermore, a strengthening of the euro particularly against the Japanese yen could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates also affect the carrying value of assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, which depending on the balance sheet classification of the relevant asset, can result in losses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In particular, the Cymer acquisition has significantly increased our U.S. dollar denominated assets, and as a result, we are more exposed to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar. See Item 5.A. “Operating Results – Foreign Exchange Management”. We May Be Unable to Make Desirable Acquisitions or to Integrate Successfully Any Businesses We Acquire Our future success may depend in part on the acquisition of businesses or technologies intended to complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. Our ability to complete such transactions may be hindered by a number of factors, including potential difficulties in obtaining government approvals. Any acquisition that we do make would pose risks related to the integration of the new business or technology with our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the benefits we expect from a particular acquisition or investment. Acquisitions may also strain our managerial and operational resources, as the challenge of managing new operations may divert our management from day-to-day operations of our existing business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing operations and any businesses we acquire. In May 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cymer, a light source supplier. We expect that the acquisition of Cymer will make EUV technology more efficient, prevent additional delays in the introduction of EUV technology, and simplify the supply chain of EUV modules. However, achieving the benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on the integration of our operations and employees with those of Cymer in a timely and efficient manner, and if we fail to do so, this may result in a delay in the development of EUV. There can be no assurance that Cymer will be successfully integrated in our business or that any of the anticipated benefits will be realized. Even if we are able to successfully integrate Cymer, there is no assurance that this transaction will result in successful development of our EUV technology. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, anti-trust regulators may impose conditions on us, including requirements to divest assets or other conditions that could make it difficult for us to integrate the businesses that we acquire. For example, in connection with the Cymer Acquisition we have agreed to maintain Cymer Light Sources as a stand-alone business which will make it more difficult to integrate Cymer Light Sources into our business operations. Our Business and Future Success Depend on Our Ability to Attract and Retain a Sufficient Number of Adequately Educated and Skilled Employees Our business and future success significantly depend upon our employees, including a large number of highly qualified professionals, as well as our ability to attract and retain employees. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. The R&D programs associated with the commitments made under the NRE funding arrangements signed in relation to the CCIP, require a significant number of qualified employees. If we are unable to attract sufficient numbers of qualified employees, this could affect our ability to conduct our research programs on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increasing complexity of our products results in a longer learning-curve for new and existing employees and suppliers leading to an inability to decrease cycle times and may result in the incurrence of significant additional costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview – Customer Co-Investment Program”. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares We May Not Declare Cash Dividends at All or in Any Particular Amounts in Any Given Year We aim to pay an annual dividend that will be stable or growing over time. Annually, the Board of Management will, upon prior approval from the Supervisory Board, submit a proposal to the AGM with respect to the amount of dividend to be declared with respect to the prior year. The dividend proposal in any given year will be subject to the availability of distributable profits or retained earnings and may be affected by, among other factors, the Board of Management’s views on our potential future liquidity requirements, including for investments in production capacity, the funding of our R&D programs and for acquisition opportunities that may arise from time to time; and by future changes in applicable income tax and corporate laws. Accordingly, the Board of Management may decide to propose not to pay a dividend or pay a lower dividend with respect to any particular year in the future, which could have a negative effect on our share price. Restrictions on Shareholder Rights May Dilute Voting Power Our Articles of Association provide that we are subject to the provisions of Dutch law applicable to large corporations, called “structuurregime”. These provisions have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Supervisory Board. As a result, holders of ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our Supervisory Board than if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. Our authorized share capital also includes a class of cumulative preference shares and we have granted “Stichting Preferente Aandelen ASML”, a Dutch foundation, an option to acquire, at their nominal value of EUR 0.09 per share, such cumulative preference shares. Exercise of the preference share option would effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one-half, which may discourage or significantly impede a third party from acquiring a majority of our voting shares. See Item 6.C. “Board Practices” and Item 10.B. “Memorandum and Articles of Association”. Participating Customers in our Customer Co-Investment Program Together Own a Significant Amount of our Ordinary Shares In the CCIP, the Participating Customers, through certain wholly-owned subsidiaries, acquired 15 percent, 5 percent and 3 percent, of our then outstanding shares, respectively (after giving effect to our Synthetic Share Buyback conducted in November 2012). The interests of the Participating Customers may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our shares. The shares acquired by the Participating Customers are held by Dutch foundations which have issued depositary receipts in respect thereof and the participating customers may only vote those shares in General Meetings in exceptional circumstances, including the authorization of certain significant share issuances and share repurchases, the approval of a significant change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business, any amendment to ASML’s Articles of Association that would materially affect the specific voting rights of the Participating Customers or that would cause a significant change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business, the dissolution of ASML, and any merger or demerger which would result in a material change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business. When such exceptional circumstances occur, the Participating Customers, and in particular Intel (due to the percentage of our shares that Intel owns), will be able to influence matters requiring approval by the General Meeting and may vote their ordinary shares in a way with which other shareholders may not agree. The Participating Customers have also agreed that they will not, without our prior written consent, transfer any of the ordinary shares they acquired in the CCIP (or depositary receipts representing those shares) until two years and six months after the date they acquired such shares (September 12, 2012 for Intel and Samsung; October 31, 2012 for TSMC). Upon expiry of such period, the ordinary shares held by Participating Customers are freely transferable, subject to orderly market arrangements and certain other restrictions. Any sales of significant amounts of shares by Participating Customers in the CCIP could have a negative effect on our share price. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview – Customer Co-Investment Program”. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 12 Table of Contents 