D. Risk Factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks and the impact they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the more relevant risks are described below. Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The Semiconductor Industry is Highly Cyclical and We May be Adversely Affected by Any Future Downturns As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, we are subject to the industry’s business cycles, the timing, duration and volatility of which are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical. Sales of our photolithography systems depend in large part upon the level of capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. These capital expenditures depend upon a range of competitive and market factors, including: • the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and for products utilizing semiconductors; • semiconductor prices; • semiconductor production costs; and • general economic conditions. Changes in demand for our products as a result of these business cycles have been affected by the timing and amounts of customers’ capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology. Future reductions or delays in capital equipment purchases by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In anticipation of periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we must maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory, and we must attract, hire, integrate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet customer demand. Our ability to predict the timing and magnitude of industry fluctuations is limited and our products require significant lead time to complete. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively increase our production capacity to 7 Table of Contents respond to an increase in customer demand in an industry upturn resulting in lost revenues and damage to customer relationships. Conversely, in an industry downturn, our ability to maintain profitability will depend substantially on whether we are able to lower our costs and break-even level, which is the number of lithography systems we must sell in a year to achieve net income. If we are unable to lower costs in an industry downturn, our net income may decline significantly. As we need to keep certain levels of inventory on hand to meet anticipated product demand, we also incur costs related to inventory obsolescence in an industry downturn. In addition, industry downturns generally result in overcapacity, exercising downward pressure on prices, which has had in the past, and could have in the future, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Business Will Suffer If We Do Not Respond Rapidly to Commercial and Technological Changes in the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor manufacturing industry is subject to: • rapid change towards more complex technologies; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • evolving industry standards; • changes in customer requirements; and • continued shortening of product life cycles. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology. Our success in developing new products and in enhancing our existing products depends on a variety of factors, including the successful management of our research and development programs and timely completion of product development and design relative to competitors. If we do not develop and introduce new and enhanced systems at competitive prices and on a timely basis, our customers will not integrate our systems into the planning and design of new fabrication facilities and upgrades of existing facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may invest considerable financial and other resources to develop and introduce new technologies, products and product enhancements, such as Extreme Ultraviolet lithography (“EUV”), that our customers may not ultimately adopt. If our customers do not adopt these or other products or enhancements that we develop due to a preference for more established technologies and products or for other reasons, we would not recoup any return on our investments in these technologies or products, which may result in charges to our statement of operations and materially and adversely affect the future growth of the Company. We Face Intense Competition The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in our markets are: • the technical performance characteristics of a photolithography system; • the value of ownership of that system based on its purchase price, maintenance costs, productivity and customer service and support; and • the strength and breadth of our portfolio of patents and other intellectual property rights. Our competitiveness will increasingly depend upon our ability to develop new and enhanced semiconductor equipment that is competitively priced and introduced on a timely basis, as well as our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview, Intellectual Property” and Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. The costs to develop new systems, in particular photolithography systems, are extremely high and accordingly, the photolithography equipment industry is characterized by fierce competition between a few suppliers. ASML’s primary competitors are Nikon Corporation (“Nikon”) and Canon Kabushika Kaisha (“Canon”). Nikon and Canon are the dominant suppliers in the Japanese market, which accounts for a significant portion of worldwide semiconductor production. This market historically has been difficult for non-Japanese companies to penetrate, and ASML has sold only a limited number of systems to Japanese customers. Both Nikon and Canon have substantial financial resources and broad patent portfolios. Each continues to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics that compete directly with our products, and may cause a decline in our sales or loss of market acceptance for our photolithography systems. In addition, adverse market conditions, industry overcapacity or a decrease in the value of the Japanese yen in relation to the euro or the U.S. dollar could further intensify price-based competition in those markets that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to ASML The Number of Systems We Can Produce is Limited by Our Dependence on a Limited Number of Suppliers of Key Components We rely on outside vendors for the components and subassemblies used in our systems, each of which is obtained from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and the risk of untimely delivery of these components and subassemblies. The number of photolithography systems we have been able to produce has occasionally been limited by the production capacity of Carl Zeiss SMT AG (“Zeiss”). Zeiss is our single supplier of lenses and other critical optical components. The inability of Zeiss to maintain and increase production levels or our inability to maintain our business relationship with Zeiss in the future could result in our inability to fulfill orders, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Zeiss were to terminate its relationship with us or if Zeiss were unable to maintain production of lenses over a prolonged period, we would effectively cease to be able to conduct our business. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview, Manufacturing, Logistics and Suppliers.” In addition to Zeiss’ current position as our single supplier of lenses, the excimer laser illumination systems that provide the ultraviolet light source, referred to as “deep UV,” used in our high resolution steppers and Step & Scan systems, are available from only a limited number of suppliers. In particular, we rely heavily on Cymer, Inc., a U.S. based company, to provide excimer laser systems. Although the timeliness, yield and quality of deliveries to date from our remaining subcontractors generally have been satisfactory, manufacturing certain of these components and subassemblies is an extremely complex process and delays caused by suppliers may occur in the future. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate deliveries, or any other circumstance that requires us to seek alternative sources of supply, could significantly hinder our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A High Percentage of Net Sales is Derived from a Few Customers Historically, we have sold a substantial number of lithography systems to a limited number of customers. While the identity of our largest customers may vary from year to year, we expect sales to remain concentrated among relatively few customers in any particular year. The loss of any significant customer or any reduction in orders by a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2005, sales to one customer accounted for EUR 609 million, or 24 percent of net sales, compared to EUR 434 million, or 18 percent of net sales, in 2004. As a result of the limited number of our customers, credit risk on our receivables is concentrated. Our three largest customers accounted for 49 percent of accounts receivable at December 31, 2005, compared to 38 percent at December 31, 2004. Business failure of one of our main customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Pace of Introduction of Our New Products is Accelerating and is Accompanied by Potential Design and Production Delays and by Significant Costs The development and initial production, installation and enhancement of the systems we produce is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs of a nature typically associated with the introduction and transition to full-scale manufacturing of complex capital equipment. While we expect and plan for a corresponding learning curve effect in our product development cycle, we cannot precisely predict the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems and to ensure full performance to specifications. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we expected in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, our current backlog includes a significant number of technology enhancements, including those associated with immersion systems. In order for the market to accept these technology enhancements, our customers, in many cases, must upgrade their existing technology capabilities. For instance, in order for our customers to effectively use immersion systems, they must have sophisticated technology to make use of resist (a fluid) and track equipment used in the immersion process. Such upgrades from established technology may not be available to our customers to enable volume production using our immersion systems or other technology 9 Table of Contents enhancements. This could result in our customers pushing back or canceling orders for our technology enhancements, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Derive Most of Our Revenues from the Sale of a Relatively Small Number of Products We derive most of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of lithography equipment systems (196 units in 2005), with an average selling price (“ASP”) in 2005 of EUR 11.4 million (EUR 13.5 million for new systems and EUR 2.9 million for used systems). As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue from a small number of transactions may have a significant impact on our net sales and other operating results for a particular reporting period. Specifically, the failure to receive anticipated orders, or delays in shipments near the end of a particular reporting period, due, for example, to: • the highly cyclical semiconductor business industry; • unanticipated shipment rescheduling; • cancellation by customers; • unexpected manufacturing difficulties; and • delays in deliveries by suppliers, may cause net sales in a particular reporting period to fall significantly below our expectations, which would, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our operating results for that period. Since the first quarter of 2003, we have published financial results on a quarterly basis. Our published quarterly earnings have varied significantly from quarter to quarter and may vary in the future as a result of the above. Compliance with Internal Controls Evaluations and Attestation Requirements May Increase Our Costs and We May Identify Significant Deficiencies or Material Weaknesses Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, ASML will be required, as a foreign private issuer, beginning in fiscal year 2006, to perform an evaluation of its internal controls over financial reporting and have its auditor publicly attest to such evaluation. We are following an internal plan of action for compliance, which includes a timeline and scheduled activities, although as of the date of this filing we have not yet finalized the evaluation. Compliance with these requirements is expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent auditor cannot attest to our evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, we may uncover significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. Measures taken by us to remedy these issues may require significant effort and expense, as well as the commitment of significant managerial resources. Each of these circumstances may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations or on our share price. Failure to Adequately Protect the Intellectual Property Rights upon Which We Depend Could Harm Our Business We rely on patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures to protect our proprietary technology. However, there is no assurance that such measures will be adequate. We face risks that: • intellectual property laws may not sufficiently protect our proprietary rights or may adversely change in the future; • pending patent applications may not be granted or construed as expected; • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary rights may not be successful; and • third parties may be able to develop or obtain patents for similar competing technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary in order to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and, if decided unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Defending Against Intellectual Property Claims by Others Could Harm Our Business We face a continuing risk that we will be subject to claims alleging the infringement of others’ intellectual property rights. If successful, these claims could limit or prohibit us from developing our technology and producing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of our business, we are subject to claims by third parties alleging that our products or processes infringe upon their intellectual property rights. In addition, our customers may be subject to claims of infringement from third parties, alleging that our products used by such customers in the manufacture of semiconductor products and/or the processes relating to the use of our products infringe one or more 10 Table of Contents patents issued to such parties. If such claims were successful, we could be required to indemnify customers for some or all of any losses incurred or damages assessed against them as a result of such infringement. We may also incur substantial licensing or settlement costs where doing so would strengthen or expand our intellectual property rights or limit our exposure to intellectual property claims by others. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Risks in our International Operations The majority of our business activity is conducted outside Europe, including in developing and emerging markets in Asia. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in those markets, including the following: • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unfavorable political or economic environment; • unexpected legal or regulatory changes; and • inability to effectively protect intellectual property. If we are unable to manage successfully the risks inherent in our international activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, approximately 18 percent of our 2005 revenues and approximately 27 percent of our 2004 revenues were derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China asserts sovereignty over Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, changes in Taiwanese government policies and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political, economic or social environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Environmental Laws and Regulations We are subject to Netherlands and foreign environmental regulations in areas such as energy resource management, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances, recycling, clean air, water protection and waste disposal. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to comply with these regulations in the course of our ordinary business operations. Furthermore, we do not believe that any environmental laws or regulations currently in effect will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, we cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or what the effect of such legislation would be on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Dependent on the Continued Operation of a Limited Number of Manufacturing Facilities All of our manufacturing activities, including subassembly, final assembly and system testing, take place in one clean room facility located in Veldhoven, the Netherlands, and one clean room facility in Wilton, Connecticut, U.S. These facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, fire, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. We cannot ensure that alternative production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of Labor Laws and Practices, Any Workforce Reductions That We May Wish to Implement In Order To Reduce Costs Company-Wide May Be Delayed or Suspended The semiconductor market is highly cyclical and as a consequence we may need to implement workforce reductions in case of a downturn, in order to adapt to such market changes. In accordance with labor laws and practices applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a reduction of any significance may be subject to certain formal procedures, which can delay, or may result in the modification of our planned workforce reductions. For example, in the Netherlands, if our Works Council does not agree with a proposed workforce reduction in the Netherlands, but we nonetheless determine to proceed, we must temporarily suspend any action while the Works Council determines whether to appeal to the Netherlands Courts. This appeal process can cause a delay of several months and may require us to address any procedural inadequacies identified by the Court in the way we reached our decision. Such delays could impair our ability to reduce costs company-wide to levels comparable to those of our competitors. See Item 6.D. “Employees.” Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Harm Our Results of Operations We are exposed to currency risks. We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro as we incur manufacturing costs and price our systems predominantly in euro while a portion of our net sales and cost of sales is denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and liabilities and operating results are denominated in U.S. dollars, and a small portion of our assets, liabilities and 11 Table of Contents operating results are denominated in currencies other than the euro and the U.S. dollar. Our consolidated financial statements are expressed in euro. Accordingly, our results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in various exchange rates. Furthermore, a strengthening of the euro particularly against the U.S. Dollar and the Japanese Yen could lead to intensified price-based competition in those markets that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also see Item 5.A. “Operating Results, Foreign Exchange Management,” Item 5.F. “Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations,” Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The Price of Our Ordinary Shares is Very Volatile The current market price of our ordinary shares may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the future. In particular, the market price of our ordinary shares experiences significant fluctuation, including fluctuation that is unrelated to our performance. We expect that this fluctuation will continue in the future. Restrictions on Shareholder Rights May Dilute Voting Power Our Articles of Association provide that we are subject to the provisions of Netherlands law applicable to large corporations, called “structuurregime”. These provisions have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Supervisory Board. In addition, the provisions in our Articles of Association relating to our Priority Shares have the effect of taking control over certain significant corporate decisions away from holders of ordinary shares. As a result, holders of ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of the Board of Management or members of our Supervisory Board than if we were incorporated in the United States. We also have a class of protective cumulative preference shares (the “Preference Shares”) and have granted to “Stichting Preferente Aandelen ASML”, a Netherlands foundation, an option to acquire from us, at their nominal value of EUR 0.02 per share, a number of preference shares equal to the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the time of option exercise. This effectively would dilute by one-half the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, which may discourage or significantly impede a third party from acquiring a majority of our voting shares. See further Item 6.C. “Board Practices” and Item 10.B. “Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 