D. Risk Factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks and the impact they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the more relevant risks are described below. These risks are not the only ones that we face. Some risks may not yet be known to us and certain risks that we do not currently believe to be material could become material in the future. Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry The Semiconductor Industry Is Highly Cyclical and We May Be Adversely Affected by Any Downturn As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, we are subject to the industry’s business cycles, of which the timing, duration and volatility are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical. Sales of our lithography systems depend in large part upon the level of capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. These capital expenditures depend upon a range of competitive and market factors, including: • The current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and for products utilizing semiconductors; • Semiconductor prices; • Semiconductor production costs and manufacturing capacity utilization for semiconductors; • Semiconductor equipment industry capacity; • Changes in semiconductor inventory levels; • General economic conditions; and • Access to capital. Reductions or delays in capital equipment purchases by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 5 Table of Contents In an industry downturn, our ability to maintain profitability will depend substantially on whether we are able to lower our costs and break-even level, which is the level of sales that we must reach in a year to achieve positive net income. If sales decrease significantly as a result of an industry downturn and we are unable to adjust our costs over the same period, our net income may decline significantly or we may suffer losses. As we need to keep certain levels of inventory on hand to meet anticipated product and service demand, we may also incur increased costs related to inventory obsolescence in an industry downturn, and such inventory obsolescence costs may be higher with our newer technology systems such as EUV. In addition, industry downturns generally result in overcapacity, resulting in downward pressure on sales prices and impairment of machinery and equipment, which in the past has had, and in the future could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial crises that affected the international banking system and global financial markets in 2008-2009 have been in many respects unprecedented and international financial markets and the global economy have remained volatile. Instability of the financial markets and the global economy in general can have a number of effects on our business, including (i) declining business and consumer confidence resulting in reduced, or delayed purchase of our products or shorter-term capital expenditures for our products; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, (ii) an inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, delayed payments from our customers and/or customer insolvencies and (iii) other adverse effects that we cannot currently anticipate. If global economic and market conditions deteriorate, we are likely to experience material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, in anticipation of periods of increasing demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, we must maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory and we must attract, hire, integrate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet customer demand. Our ability to predict the timing and magnitude of industry fluctuations is limited and our products require significant lead-time to successfully complete. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively increase our production capacity to respond to an increase in customer demand in an industry upturn resulting in lost sales, damage to customer relationships and we may lose market share. Our Business Will Suffer If We or the Industry Do Not Respond Rapidly to Commercial and Technological Changes in the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor manufacturing industry is subject to: • Rapid change towards more complex technologies; • Frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • Evolving industry standards; • Changes in customer requirements; and • Shorter product life cycles. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology. Our success in developing new products and in enhancing our existing products depends on a variety of factors, including the successful management of our R&D programs and the timely completion of product development and design relative to competitors. If we do not develop and introduce new and enhanced systems at competitive prices and on a timely basis, our customers will not integrate our systems into the planning and design of new production facilities and upgrades of existing facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we are investing considerable financial and other resources to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, such as Dry, Immersion, EUV and Holistic Lithography. If we or our suppliers are unable to successfully develop and introduce these products and technologies, or if our customers do not fully adopt the new technologies, products or product enhancements due to a preference for more established or alternative new technologies and products, due to the failure to meet their development roadmaps which require our new technology or for any other reason, we may not recoup all of our investments in these technologies or products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 6 Table of Contents The success of EUV, which we believe is critical for keeping pace with Moore’s Law, which postulates that the number of transistors on a chip doubles approximately every 18 to 24 months at equivalent costs, remains dependent on continuing technical advances by us and our suppliers, particularly with respect to technology related to the light source, source power, system availability, and scanner performance, without which EUV tools cannot achieve the productivity and yield required to economically justify the higher price of these tools. A delay in the developments of these tools or a delay in such tools meeting production requirements could discourage or result in much slower adoption of this EUV technology and could delay purchases of these tools. In addition, the introduction of alternative technologies or processes by our competitors that compete with EUV could discourage or result in much slower adoption of EUV technology. If the technologies that we pursue to assist our customers in producing smaller and more efficient chips are not as effective as those developed by our competitors, or if our customers adopt new technological architectures that are less focused on lithography, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Intense Competition The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in our market are: • The technical performance characteristics of a lithography system; • The value of ownership of that system based on its purchase price, maintenance costs, productivity, and customer service and support costs; • The exchange rate of the euro, particularly against the Japanese yen- strengthening of the euro against the yen could result in a loss of market share; • The relative strength and breadth of our portfolio of patents and other intellectual property rights; and • Our customers’ desire to obtain lithography equipment from more than one supplier. Our competitiveness increasingly depends upon our ability to develop new and enhanced semiconductor equipment that is competitively priced and introduced on a timely basis, as well as our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Intellectual Property”, and Note 19 to the Financial Statements. We compete primarily with Nikon and Canon. Both Nikon and Canon have substantial financial resources and broad patent portfolios. Each continues to introduce new products with improved price and performance characteristics that compete directly with our products, which may cause a decline in our sales or a loss of market acceptance for our lithography systems. In addition, adverse market conditions, industry overcapacity or a decrease in the value of the Japanese yen in relation to the euro or the U.S. dollar, could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to competitors in lithography, we may face competition with respect to alternative technologies for the non-critical layers or for all layers. If we fail to keep pace with Moore’s Law or in the event the delivery of new technology is delayed, our customers may opt for other solutions in IC manufacturing as a substitute for purchasing our products. In the future the IC industry may not find it economically or technically feasible to maintain the pace of Moore’s Law through the use of lithography systems, which could result in our customers choosing solutions other than lithography for IC manufacturing. In addition, if the pace of Moore’s Law is not maintained, this could also result in the IC industry utilizing fewer leading technology systems, which could result in lower sales and margins. Risks Related to ASML The Number of Systems We Can Produce Is Limited by Our Dependence on a Limited Number of Suppliers of Key Components We rely on outside vendors for components and subassemblies used in our systems including the design thereof, each of which is obtained from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, reduced control over pricing and the risk of untimely delivery of these components and subassemblies. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 7 Table of Contents The number of lithography systems we are able to produce may be limited by the production capacity of Zeiss. Zeiss is our single supplier of lenses, mirrors, collectors and other critical optical components (which we refer to as optics). If Zeiss were unable to maintain and increase production levels or if we are unable to maintain our business relationship with Zeiss in the future we could be unable to fulfill orders, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Zeiss were to terminate its relationship with us or if Zeiss were unable to maintain production of optics over a prolonged period, we would effectively cease to be able to conduct our business. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Manufacturing, Logistics and Suppliers”. In addition to Zeiss’ current position as a supplier of optics, a number of other critical components such as drive lasers included in our CO2 lasers used in our EUV systems are available from only a limited number of suppliers. Designing and manufacturing some of these components and subassemblies that we use in our manufacturing processes is an extremely complex process and could result in delays by our suppliers. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate deliveries of components or subassemblies, or any other circumstance that requires us to seek alternative sources of supply, could significantly hinder our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as we develop new technologies, such as EUV, this requires our suppliers to participate in the development process so that the components they supply will meet the requirements of our development roadmap, and this may require significant R&D spending on the part of our suppliers. If our suppliers are unable to maintain their development roadmap in line with ours, this may delay the development and introduction of new products. In addition, our suppliers may not have or may not be willing to spend sufficient financial resources to make the necessary R&D expenditures to enable them (and therefore us) to continue development roadmaps. In this case, we may be required to co-invest with our suppliers to continue the R&D required to continue development roadmaps. A High Percentage of Net Sales is Derived From a Few Customers Historically, we have sold a substantial number of lithography systems to a limited number of customers. We expect customer concentration to increase because of continuing consolidation in the semiconductor manufacturing industry. Consequently, while the identity of our largest customers may vary from year to year, sales may remain concentrated among relatively few customers in any particular year. In 2014, recognized sales to our largest customer accounted for EUR 1,532.1 million, or 26.2 percent of net sales, compared with EUR 2,058.6 million, or 39.2 percent of net sales, in 2013. The loss of any significant customer or any significant reduction in orders by a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as a result of our limited number of customers, credit risk on our receivables is concentrated. Our three largest customers (based on net sales) accounted for EUR 643.2 million, or 49.3 percent of accounts receivable and finance receivables on December 31, 2014, compared with EUR 861.4 million, or 73.3 percent on December 31, 2013. As a result, business failure or insolvency of one of our main customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Derive Most of Our Revenues From the Sale of a Relatively Small Number of Products We derive most of our revenues from the sale of a relatively small number of lithography equipment systems (136 units in 2014 and 157 units in 2013), with an ASP per system in 2014 of EUR 31.2 million (EUR 35.6 million for new systems and EUR 5.8 million for used systems) and an ASP per system in 2013 of EUR 25.4 million (EUR 27.4 million for new systems and EUR 6.9 million for used systems). As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a particular reporting period from a small number of system sales may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in that period. Specifically, the failure to receive anticipated orders, or delays in shipments near the end of a particular reporting period, due, for example, to: • A downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry; • Volatility in the Logic and Memory end-markets as a result of oversupply and undersupply; • Shipment rescheduling; • Cancellation or order push-back by customers; • Unexpected manufacturing difficulties; or • Delays in deliveries by suppliers may cause net sales in a particular reporting period to fall significantly below net sales in previous periods or below our expected net sales, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. In particular, our published quarterly earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may vary in the future and reduce our visibility on future sales for the reasons discussed above. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 8 Table of Contents The Time Window for New Product Introduction is Shorter and is Accompanied by Potential Design and Production Delays and by Significant Costs The development and initial production, installation and enhancement of the systems we produce is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs of a nature typically associated with the introduction and transition to full-scale manufacturing of complex capital equipment. While we expect and plan for a corresponding learning-curve effect in our product development cycle, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems and to ensure full performance to specifications. Moreover, we anticipate that this learning-curve effect will continue to present increasingly difficult challenges with each new generation of our products as a result of increasing technological complexity. In particular, the development of an EUV volume production system is dependent on, and subject to the successful implementation of, among other things, technology related to the light source, source power, system availability, scanner performance and other technologies specific to EUV. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we anticipate in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the market to accept technology enhancements, our customers, in many cases, must upgrade their existing technology capabilities. Such upgrades from established technology may not be available to our customers to enable volume production using our new technology enhancements. This could result in our customers not purchasing, or pushing back or canceling orders for our technology enhancements, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on our suppliers to maintain their development roadmaps to enable us to introduce new technologies on a timely basis, and if they are unable to keep pace whether due to technological factors, lack of financial resources or otherwise, this could prevent us from meeting our development roadmaps. Additionally, in connection with our EUV production, we have made advanced payments to suppliers that we may not recoup if we do not reach expected EUV sales levels in the future. We may make similar advance payments (or other investments in our suppliers) to suppliers in connection with EUV or other technologies we develop, and we may not recoup those advanced payments or other investments (e.g. if expected sales are not met). See Note 9 to our Financial Statements. As Lithography Technologies Become More Complex, the Success of Our R&D Programs Becomes More Uncertain and More Expensive Our lithography systems have become increasingly complex, and accordingly, the costs to develop new products and technologies have increased, and we expect such costs to continue to increase. This increase in costs requires us to continue obtaining sufficient funding for our R&D programs. For example, we obtained partial funding for our EUV R&D program through the CCIP. We may however, be unable to obtain this type of funding from customers in the future, in which case we may be unable to fund R&D investments necessary to maintain our technological leadership. The increasing complexity of new technologies, which leads to increasing cost of R&D programs for new technologies, also increases the risk that a new product or technology may not be successful Furthermore, as the innovation cycle becomes more complex, developing new technology, including EUV technology, requires increased R&D investments by our suppliers in order to meet the technology demands of us and our customers. Our suppliers may not have, or may not be willing to invest, the resources necessary to continue the development of the new technologies to the extent such investments are necessary, which may result in our contributing funds to such R&D programs or limiting the R&D investments that we can undertake. Failure to Adequately Protect the Intellectual Property Rights Upon Which We Depend Could Harm Our Business We rely on intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology. However, we face the risk that such measures could prove to be inadequate because: • Intellectual property laws may not sufficiently support our proprietary rights or may change in the future in a manner adverse to us; • Patent rights may not be granted or interpreted as we expect; • Patents will expire which may result in key technology becoming widely available that may hurt our competitive position; • The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary rights may not be successful; and • Third parties may be able to develop or obtain patents for similar competing technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement. Any such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, and, if decided unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 9 Table of Contents A Disruption in Our Information Technology Systems, Including Those Related to Cybersecurity, Could Adversely Affect Our Business Operations We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our information technology systems. Despite the measures that we have implemented, including those related to cybersecurity, our systems could be breached or damaged by computer viruses and systems attacks, natural or man-made incidents, disasters or unauthorized physical or electronic access. From time to time we experience cybersecurity attacks on our information technology systems, which are becoming more sophisticated and include malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information (including confidential information relating to our customers and suppliers), and corruption of data. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in business disruption, theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets (including our proprietary technology), customer or supplier information and unauthorized access to personnel information. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures we have implemented will be sufficient to prevent a system failure, accident or security breach from occurring. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data or proprietary technology is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with customers and suppliers or our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or repair the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Defending Against Intellectual Property Claims Brought by Others Could Harm Our Business In the course of our business, we are subject to claims by third parties alleging that our products or processes infringe upon their intellectual property rights. If successful, such claims could limit or prohibit us from developing our technology and manufacturing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our customers may be subject to claims of infringement from third parties, alleging that our products used by such customers in the manufacture of semiconductor products and/or the processes relating to the use of our products infringe one or more patents issued to such third parties. If such claims were successful, we could be required to indemnify customers for some or all of any losses incurred or damages assessed against them as a result of such infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may incur substantial licensing or settlement costs, which although potentially strengthening or expanding our intellectual property rights or limiting our exposure to intellectual property claims of third parties, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From late 2001 through 2004, ASML was a party to a series of civil litigations and administrative proceedings in which Nikon alleged ASML’s infringement of Nikon patents relating to lithography. ASML in turn filed claims against Nikon. Pursuant to agreements executed on December 10, 2004, ASML and Nikon agreed to settle all pending worldwide patent litigation between the companies. The settlement included an exchange of releases, a patent cross-license agreement related to lithography equipment used to manufacture semiconductor devices, and payments to Nikon by ASML. Under the terms of the Nikon Cross-License Agreement, beginning on January 1, 2015, the parties may bring suit for infringement of certain patents subject to the agreement, including any infringement that occurred from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014 (the “Cross-License Transition Period”). Damages resulting from claims for patent infringement occurring during the Cross-License Transition Period are limited to three percent of the net sales price of applicable licensed products or optical components. Accordingly, from January 1, 2015, both Nikon and we are no longer prohibited under the agreement from bringing claims against each other on the basis of infringement of certain patents subject to the Nikon Cross-License Agreement. If Nikon files suit against us alleging patent infringement, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses, and we may not prevail. Similarly, if we file suit against Nikon alleging patent infringement, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses, and we may not prevail. Patent litigation is complex and may extend for a protracted period of time, giving rise to the potential for both substantial costs and diverting the attention of key management and technical personnel. Potential adverse outcomes from patent litigation may include, without limitation, payment of significant monetary damages, injunctive relief prohibiting the sale of products, and/or settlement involving significant costs to be paid by us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We are unable to predict at this time whether any such patent suit will in fact materialize, or, if so, what its outcome might be. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 10 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Risks in Our International Operations The majority of our sales are made to customers outside Europe. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in some of those regions: • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Unfavorable political or economic environments; • Unexpected legal or regulatory changes; • An inability to effectively protect intellectual property; and • Adverse effects of foreign currency fluctuations. If we are unable to manage successfully the risks inherent in our international activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, 19.2 percent of our 2014 net sales and 42.4 percent of our 2013 net sales were derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China asserts sovereignty over Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwanese government. Changes in relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, Taiwanese government policies and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political, economic or social environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain of our manufacturing facilities as well as customers are located in South Korea. There are tensions between the Republic of South Korea and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea since the division of the Korean Peninsula following World War II. The worsening of relations between those two countries or the outbreak of war on the Korean Peninsula could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the installation and servicing of our products requires us to travel to our customers’ premises. Natural disasters could affect our ability to do so. For example, the Japanese earthquake in 2011 resulted in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers in Japan. Natural disasters in areas where our customers are located could prevent or disrupt the installation or servicing of our systems. In addition, we have customers located in Israel. If the geopolitical environment prevents travel to Israel, it could result in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers. Lastly, if there is a pandemic outbreak located near any of our customers, it could result in the disruption of our installation and servicing of systems for our customers near the outbreak. Therefore, if there is a natural disaster, geopolitical conflict or pandemic that prevents our ability to travel to our customers’ premises, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely effected. We Are Dependent on the Continued Operation of a Limited Number of Manufacturing Facilities All of our manufacturing activities, including subassembly, final assembly and system testing, take place in cleanroom facilities in Veldhoven, the Netherlands, in Wilton, Connecticut and in San Diego, California, both in the United States, in Pyeongtaek, South-Korea and in Linkou, Taiwan. These facilities may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, fire, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. We cannot ensure that alternative production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such capacity was available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such a disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our key suppliers, including Zeiss, have a limited number of manufacturing facilities, the disruption of which may significantly and adversely affect our production capacity. Because of Labor Laws and Practices, Any Workforce Reductions That We May Seek to Implement in Order to Reduce Costs Company-Wide May Be Delayed or Suspended The semiconductor market is highly cyclical and as a consequence we may need to implement workforce reductions in case of a downturn, in order to adapt to such market changes. In accordance with labor laws and practices applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a reduction of any significance may be subject to formal procedures that can delay or may result in the modification of our planned workforce reductions. For example, ASML Netherlands B.V., our operating subsidiary in the Netherlands, has a Works Council, as required by Dutch law. If the Works Council renders contrary advice in connection with a proposed workforce reduction in the Netherlands, but we nonetheless determine to proceed, we must temporarily suspend any action while the Works Council determines whether to appeal to the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal. This appeal process can cause a delay of several months and may require us to address any procedural inadequacies identified by the Court in the way we reached our decision. Such delays could impair our ability to reduce costs company-wide to levels comparable to those of our competitors. Also see Item 6.D “Employees”. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Harm Our Results of Operations We are exposed to currency risks. We are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Japanese yen and the euro, as we incur manufacturing costs for our systems predominantly in euros while portions of our net sales and cost of sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 Table of Contents In addition, a portion of our assets and liabilities and operating results are denominated in U.S. dollars, particularly following our acquisition of Cymer in 2013, and a small portion of our assets, liabilities and operating results are denominated in currencies other than the euro and the U.S. dollar. Our Financial Statements are expressed in euros. Accordingly, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the euro and such other currencies, and changes in currency exchange rates can result in losses in our Financial Statements. In general, our customers generally run their businesses in U.S. dollars and therefore a weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro might impact the ability or desire of our customers to purchase our products. Furthermore, a strengthening of the euro particularly against the Japanese yen could further intensify price-based competition in those regions that account for the majority of our sales, resulting in lower prices and margins and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 5.A. “Operating Results – Foreign Exchange Management”. We May Be Unable to Make Desirable Acquisitions or to Integrate Successfully Any Businesses We Acquire Our future success may depend in part on the acquisition of businesses or technologies intended to complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. Our ability to complete such transactions may be hindered by a number of factors, including potential difficulties in obtaining government approvals. Any acquisition that we do make would pose risks related to the integration of the new business or technology with our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the benefits we expect from a particular acquisition or investment. Acquisitions may also strain our managerial and operational resources, as the challenge of managing new operations may divert our management from day-to-day operations of our existing business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing operations and any businesses we acquire. In May 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cymer, a light source supplier with the goal of making EUV technology more efficient, preventing additional delays in the introduction of EUV technology, and simplifying the supply chain of EUV modules. If we fail to integrate Cymer successfully, this may result in a delay in the development of EUV. Even if we are able to successfully integrate Cymer, there is no assurance that our acquisition of Cymer will result in successful or timely development of our EUV technology. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, anti-trust regulators may impose conditions on us, including requirements to divest assets or other conditions that could make it difficult for us to integrate the businesses that we acquire. For example, in connection with the Cymer acquisition we have agreed to maintain Cymer Light Sources as a stand-alone business. Our Business and Future Success Depend on Our Ability to Attract and Retain a Sufficient Number of Adequately Educated and Skilled Employees Our business and future success significantly depends upon our employees, including a large number of highly qualified professionals, as well as our ability to attract and retain employees. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Our R&D programs require a significant number of qualified employees. If we are unable to attract sufficient numbers of qualified employees, this could affect our ability to conduct our research and development programs on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we lose a key employee to retirement, illness or otherwise, particularly a number of our highly qualified professionals and/or senior management, we may not be able to timely find a suitable replacement. Moreover, as a result of the uniqueness and complexity of our technology, qualified engineers capable of working on our systems are scarce and generally not available (e.g. from other industries or companies). As a result, we must educate and train our employees to work on our systems. Therefore, a loss of a number of key professionals and/or senior management can be disruptive, costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the increasing complexity of our products results in a longer learning-curve for new and existing employees and suppliers leading to an inability to decrease cycle times and may result in the incurrence of significant additional costs. Our suppliers face similar risks in attracting qualified employees, including attracting employees in connection with R&D programs that will support our R&D programs and technology developments. To the extent that our suppliers are unable to attract qualified employees, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 12 Table of Contents Hazardous Substances Are Used in the Production and Operation of Our Systems and Failure to Comply with Applicable Regulations or Failure to Implement Appropriate Practices for Customer and Employee Environment, Health and Safety could Subject us to Significant Liabilities Hazardous substances are used in the production and operation of our lithography systems, which subjects us to a variety of governmental regulations relating to environmental protection and employee and product health and safety, including the transport, use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. In addition, operating our machines (which use lasers and other potentially hazardous tools) is dangerous and can result in injury. The failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in substantial fines being imposed on us or other adverse consequences. Additionally, our products have become increasingly complex. The increasing complexity requires us to invest in continued risk assessments and development of appropriate preventative and protective measures for health and safety for both our employees (in connection with the production and installation of our systems) and our customers’ employees (in connection with the operation of our systems). There can be no assurance that the health and safety practices we develop will be adequate to mitigate all health and safety risks. Failing to comply with applicable regulations or the failure of our implemented practices for customer and employee health and safety could subject us to significant liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares We May Not Declare Cash Dividends at All or in Any Particular Amounts in Any Given Year We aim to pay an annual dividend that will be stable or growing over time. Annually, the BoM will, upon prior approval from the Supervisory Board, submit a proposal to the AGM with respect to the amount of dividend to be declared with respect to the prior year. The dividend proposal in any given year will be subject to the availability of distributable profits or retained earnings and may be affected by, among other factors, the BoM’s views on our potential future liquidity requirements, including for investments in production capacity, the funding of our R&D programs and for acquisition opportunities that may arise from time to time; and by future changes in applicable income tax and corporate laws. Accordingly, the BoM may decide to propose not to pay a dividend or pay a lower dividend with respect to any particular year in the future, which could have a negative effect on our share price. Restrictions on Shareholder Rights May Dilute Voting Power Our Articles of Association provide that we are subject to the provisions of Dutch law applicable to large corporations, called “structuurregime”. These provisions have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Supervisory Board. As a result, holders of ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our Supervisory Board than if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. Our authorized share capital also includes a class of cumulative preference shares and we have granted “Stichting Preferente Aandelen ASML”, a Dutch foundation, an option to acquire, at their nominal value of EUR 0.09 per share, such cumulative preference shares. Exercise of the preference share option would effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one-half, which may discourage or significantly impede a third party from acquiring a majority of our voting shares. See Item 6.C. “Board Practices” and Item 10.B. “Memorandum and Articles of Association”. Participating Customers in Our Customer Co-Investment Program Together Own a Significant Amount of Our Ordinary Shares and Their Interests May Not Coincide with the Interests of Our Other Shareholders In the CCIP, the Participating Customers, being Intel, Samsung and TSMC, through certain wholly-owned subsidiaries, acquired in aggregate 96,566,077 ASML shares, constituting 22.3% of ASML’s issued and outstanding shares as of December 31, 2014. In the CCIP, all of the Participating Customers agreed to a lock-up arrangement with us which expire in the first half of 2015. Once the contractual lock ups expire, the Participating Customers will be permitted to sell their shares, subject to the following limitations: any market sales are limited in any 6 month period to a total of 4%, 2.5% or 1.5% of our disclosed outstanding shares, in the case of Intel, TSMC and Samsung, respectively, but such limitations do not apply to underwritten sales or block trades. The sale of a large number of these shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13 Table of Contents Additionally, the interests of the Participating Customers may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our shares. The shares acquired by the Participating Customers are held by Dutch foundations which have issued depositary receipts in respect thereof and the participating customers may only vote those shares in General Meetings in exceptional circumstances, including the authorization of certain significant share issuances and share repurchases, the approval of a significant change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business, any amendment to ASML’s Articles of Association that would materially affect the specific voting rights of the Participating Customers or that would cause a significant change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business, the dissolution of ASML, and any merger or demerger which would result in a material change in the identity or nature of ASML or its business. When such exceptional circumstances occur, the Participating Customers, and in particular Intel (due to the percentage of our shares that Intel owns), will be able to influence matters requiring approval by the General Meeting and may vote their ordinary shares in a way with which other shareholders may not agree. 