Risk Factors.” Available Information We maintain a link to investor information on our website, www.apollogold.com, where we make available, free of charge, our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also make available on our website copies of the charters of the audit, compensation, technical and nominating committees of our board of directors, our code of business conduct and ethics and our corporate governance principles. Shareholders may request a printed copy of these governance materials or any exhibit to this report by writing to our Manager of Investor Relations, Apollo Gold Corporation, 5655 S. Yosemite Street, Suite 200, Greenwood Village, CO 80111. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains the documents we file with the SEC. Our website and the information contained on or connected to our website are not incorporated by reference herein and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only. -21- ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to historical information, the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking” statements about our future business and performance. Our actual operating results and financial performance may be very different from what we expect as of the date of this report. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition; and our related debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to invest in and grow our businesses. We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of March 20, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $57.1 million in long-term debt outstanding. In addition, we expect to drawdown the remaining $33 million of the $70 million Black Fox project finance facility on or before June 30, 2009. While our $70 million project facility is outstanding, we will have annual principal obligations of between approximately $10.2 million and $24.5 million (assuming we drawdown the full $70 million available thereunder). The interest rate on this loan is floating based on the LIBOR rate plus 7 percent per annum; accordingly, if the LIBOR rate is increased, interest expense will be higher. The maturity date on this loan is March 31, 2013. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our Black Fox project, which is expected to be our only source of significant revenues. Because we anticipate that a substantial portion of the cash generated by our operations will be used to service this loan during its term, such funds will not be available to use in future operations, or investing in our businesses. The foregoing may adversely impact our ability to repay the $4,290,000 principal amount of convertible debentures due February 23, 2010 owned by RAB Special Situations (Master) Fund Limited (“RAB”), to finance the development of the M Pit at Montana Tunnels and conduct all of our planned exploration activities at our Huizopa property or pursue other corporate opportunities. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from Black Fox operations in 2009 or by raising additional equity or debt financing in the near term, then we may not be able to meet our debt obligations and capital expenditure commitments. As of March 20, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $57.1 million in long-term debt outstanding. In addition, we expect to drawdown an additional $33 million under the Black Fox project finance facility on or before June 30, 2009, which drawdown will give rise to $22.5 million in principal and interest repayment obligations and capital lease payment obligations during fiscal year 2009. Furthermore, as of March 20, 2009, we had aggregate capital commitments outstanding of approximately $18.0 million, $15.8 million of which is due during fiscal year 2009. Currently, we are not generating positive cash flow. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service and capital commitment requirements, we may not be able to continue our operations. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our debt obligations or satisfy any additional debt obligations when they become due and may have to raise additional financing from the sale of equity or debt securities, enter into commercial transactions or otherwise restructure our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that any such financing or restructuring will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, and our existing debt agreements prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders thereunder. If we are unable to restructure our obligations, we may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any restructuring or bankruptcy would materially impair the value of our common shares. -22- Operational problems and start-up issues may disrupt mining operations at Black Fox which commenced in March 2009 and prevent or delay us from commencing milling operations in April 2009, or substantially reduce gold production once milling commences. Mine development projects, including our Black Fox project, inherently involve risks and hazards. Although we commenced mining of the Black Fox open pit in March 2009 and expect to commence milling in April 2009, development of and any future production at our Black Fox project could be prevented, delayed or disrupted by, among other things: · unanticipated changes in grade and tonnage of material to be mined and processed; · unanticipated adverse geotechnical conditions; · adverse weather conditions; · incorrect data on which engineering assumptions are made; · availability and cost of labor and other supplies and equipment; · availability of economic sources of power; · adequacy of access to the site; · unanticipated transportation costs; · government regulations (including regulations relating to prices, royalties, duties, taxes, restrictions on production, quotas on exportation of minerals, as well as the costs of protection of the environment and agricultural lands); · lower than expected ore grades; · the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable to mining or treatment than expected; · delivery and installation of equipment necessary to commence operations as planned; or · failure of our equipment, processes or facilities to operate properly or as expected. Production delays or stoppages will adversely affect our sales and operating results, and could prevent us from meeting our debt repayment obligations under the project facility agreement. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the Black Fox project will be developed at the budgeted cost and on schedule. Although we believe that we have obtained sufficient funds to develop the Black Fox project, we cannot provide assurance of this. Furthermore, if the actual cost to complete the Black Fox project is significantly higher than currently expected, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to cover these costs or that we will be able to obtain alternative sources of financing to cover these costs. The Toronto Stock Exchange has indicated to us that it is conducting a review of our eligibility for continued listing of our common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange. In connection with the completion of the project finance facility, we issued 34,836,111 common share purchase warrants to the project finance banks. Each warrant is exercisable for a period of 48 months from closing at an exercise price of Cdn.$0.252 per share (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments). These warrants were in addition to the 42,614,254 common share purchase warrants issued to the project finance banks in connection with the bridge facility agreement entered into on December 10, 2008. Under the Company Manual of the Toronto Stock Exchange, which we sometimes refer to herein as the TSX, shareholder approval would be required for the issuance of these warrants because the number of common shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants is in excess of 25% of our currently issued and outstanding common shares. Because we did not have sufficient time to obtain shareholder approval prior to the anticipated closing of the project finance facility, we applied to the TSX for a financial hardship exemption from the shareholder approval requirements. The TSX granted the financial hardship exemption to us, but as a consequence of relying upon such exemption, the TSX has informed us that it will commence a review to determine the eligibility for continued listing of our common shares on the TSX. The TSX has indicated that we must demonstrate that we meet all TSX listing requirements on or before September 15, 2009. Following the completion of the project finance facility on February 20, 2009, we believe that we meet all the listing requirements of the TSX. However, there can be no assurance that the TSX will agree and, if we are unable to demonstrate our compliance, our common shares would be delisted from the TSX. -23- Mining of ore at our Montana Tunnels mine ceased in December 2008. On December 5, 2008, we ceased mining of ore from the Montana Tunnels open pit operation as a result of exhausting the ore in our current L Pit permit. While we have received all necessary permits to expand the current pit, which expansion plan we refer to as the M Pit project, the M Pit project would cost approximately $70 million, and we and our joint venture partner have not yet determined whether to proceed with the M Pit project. Such decision will depend, among other things, on the ability to secure financing for the $70 million on acceptable terms and the prices of gold, silver, lead and zinc and available smelter terms. The Montana Tunnels mine is our only source of revenue and cash flow at this time. If we are unable or choose not to pursue the M Pit project, the Montana Tunnels mine will cease to generate revenues and cash flow once the stockpiled ore at the Montana Tunnels mine has been processed, which stockpile we expect to exhaust in April 2009. We expect that the proceeds from stockpiled ore will be fully utilized in repaying the $2,762,000 of existing indebtedness outstanding under the October 2007 debt facility (as increased by the July 2008 amendment thereto) and completing closure of the mine and milling facilities. In addition, if we choose to and are able to pursue the M Pit project, we expect that the pre-stripping program will take approximately 12 months, during which time no ore will be produced. As a result, there will be a period of time after the ore stockpiles from the L Pit have been exhausted and prior to production from the M Pit (which period we expect would be a minimum of twelve months but could be longer) during which we will have no revenue or cash flow from the Montana Tunnels mine. We do not currently have and may not be able to raise sufficient funds to explore our Huizopa property and commence the development of the M Pit. We do not currently have sufficient funds to undertake the M Pit expansion at the Montana Tunnels mine and conduct all of our planned exploration activities at our Huizopa property. The M Pit expansion and exploration of Huizopa will require significant capital expenditures. Sources of external financing may include bank and non-bank borrowings and future debt and equity offerings. There can be no assurance that financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent months, the U.S. stock market indexes experienced a steep decline and the available debt financing has tightened. In light of these developments, concerns by investors regarding the stability of the U.S. financial system could result in less favorable commercial financing terms, including higher interest rates or costs and tighter operating covenants, thereby preventing us from obtaining the financing required to develop the M Pit at Montana Tunnels and to conduct all of our planned exploration activities at our Huizopa property. -24- The existence of outstanding rights to purchase common shares may impair our share price and our ability to raise capital. Approximately 129.2 million of our common shares are issuable on exercise of warrants, options or other rights to purchase common shares at prices ranging from $0.176 to $2.24 and a weighted average price of $0.29. In addition, there are 8,580,000 common shares issuable upon the conversion of the $4,290,000 outstanding principal amount of convertible debentures now due February 23, 2010 held by RAB, which are convertible at the option of the holder at a conversion price of $0.50 per share. During the term of the warrants, options, convertible debentures and other rights, the holders are given an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common shares with a resulting dilution in the interest of the other shareholders. Our ability to obtain additional equity financing during the period such rights are outstanding may be adversely affected, and the existence of the rights may have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. The holders of the warrants, options, convertible debentures and other rights can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than those provided by the outstanding rights. Past and future equity issuances could impair our share price. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common shares, the market price of our common shares could decrease. We have 232,811,195 common shares outstanding as at March 20, 2009. In addition, we may sell additional common shares in subsequent offerings and issue additional common shares to finance future acquisitions or as compensation in financing transactions. In the bridge facility financing completed on December 10, 2008 and the project facility financing completed February 20, 2009, we issued warrants to purchase 77,450,365 common shares to the project finance banks (32,944,902 to RMB Australia Holdings Limited and 44,505,463 to Macquarie Bank Limited), representing approximately 34.3% of our outstanding common shares (on an undiluted basis) as partial consideration for financing services. In addition, we issued 2,567,901 common share purchase warrants to Haywood Securities Inc. in consideration for financial advisory services provided in connection with the restructuring of the February 2007 convertible debentures held by RAB and the project finance facility. We have agreed to register the resale of the common shares underlying the warrants issued to the project finance banks and Haywood with the SEC. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales or issuances of large numbers of our common shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. With any additional issuance of common shares, investors will suffer dilution and we may experience dilution in our earnings per share. The market price of our common shares has experienced volatility and could decline significantly. Our common shares are listed on the NYSE Amex exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. Our share price has declined significantly since 2004, and over the last year the closing price of our common shares has fluctuated from a low of $0.11 per share to a high of $0.74 per share. The stock prices of virtually all companies have decreased since the fall of 2008 as global economic issues have adversely affected public markets. Furthermore, securities of small-cap companies have experienced substantial volatility in the past, often based on factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of the companies involved. These factors include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. Our share price is also likely to be significantly affected by global economic issues, as well as short-term changes in gold and zinc prices or in our financial condition or liquidity. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common shares at any given point in time might not accurately reflect our long-term value. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management’s attention and resources. -25- We have a history of losses. With the exception of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, during which we had a net income of $1,596,000 and $2,416,000, respectively, we have incurred significant losses. Our net losses were $15,587,000 and $22,208,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, the Montana Tunnels mine is our only current source of revenue and mining of ore at the mining operations ceased on December 5, 2008. We expect to continue the milling of ore stockpiles at Montana Tunnels until April 2009. Following the cessation of the milling of the ore stockpiles, we will no longer have any revenues or cash flow from the Montana Tunnels mine. In addition, if we choose and are able to pursue the M Pit expansion, there will be a period of time after the ore stockpiles from the L Pit have been exhausted and prior to production from the M Pit (which period we expect would be a minimum of twelve months but could be longer) during which we will have no revenue or cash flow from the Montana Tunnels mine. However, during this time we will have obligations under loan agreements and for the development of the Black Fox project, and therefore we expect that there could be significant losses until such time as we begin production from Black Fox and there can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our earnings may be affected by metals price volatility, specifically the volatility of gold and zinc prices. We historically have derived all of our revenues from the sale of gold, silver, lead and zinc, and our development and exploration activities are focused on gold. As a result, our future earnings are directly related to the price of gold. Since the beginning of 2008, the London P.M. or afternoon fix gold spot price, as reported by the Wall Street Journal, has fluctuated from a high of $1,011/oz to a low of $712/oz and was $954/oz on March 20, 2009. Changes in the price of gold significantly affect our profitability and the trading price of our common shares. Gold prices historically have fluctuated widely, based on numerous industry factors including: · industrial and jewelry demand; · central bank lending, sales and purchases of gold; · forward sales of gold by producers and speculators; · production and cost levels in major gold-producing regions; and · rapid short-term changes in supply and demand because of speculative or hedging activities. Gold prices are also affected by macroeconomic factors, including: · confidence in the global monetary system; · expectations of the future rate of inflation (if any); · the strength of, and confidence in, the U.S. dollar (the currency in which the price of gold is generally quoted) and other currencies; · interest rates; and · global or regional political or economic events, including but not limited to acts of terrorism. -26- The current demand for, and supply of, gold also affects gold prices. The supply of gold consists of a combination of new production from mining and existing shares of bullion held by government central banks, public and private financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals. As the amounts produced by all producers in any single year constitute a small portion of the total potential supply of gold, normal variations in current production do not usually have a significant impact on the supply of gold or on its price. Mobilization of gold held by central banks through lending and official sales may have a significant adverse impact on the gold price. All of the above factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. If the market prices for gold, silver, zinc or lead fall below our costs to produce them for a sustained period of time, that will make it more difficult to obtain financing for our projects, we will experience additional losses and we could also be required to discontinue exploration, development and/or mining at one or more of our properties. Possible hedging activities could expose us to losses. As a part of the project finance facility, we and the lenders have entered into a hedging program covering both gold sales and part of our Canadian dollar operating costs. Specifically, we have entered into a 250,420 ounce gold forward sales program which will be allocated across the four year term of the project facility agreement. The weighted average price of the sales program is $876 per ounce of gold. The foreign exchange hedge program is for the Canadian dollar equivalent of $60 million, at an exchange rate of Cdn$1.21=US$1.0, over the four year term of the project facility agreement. In addition, in connection with our Montana Tunnels debt facility financed by RMB Australia Holdings Limited, we were required to enter into hedges on gold, silver, lead and zinc. These hedges cover the first quarter 2009 production from the Montana Tunnels mine and represent approximately 40% of our share of gold and silver and 50% of our share of lead production from the Montana Tunnels mine. There is no outstanding hedge on zinc production. In the future, we may enter into hedging contracts that may involve outright forward sales contracts, spot-deferred sales contracts, the use of options which may involve the sale of call options and the purchase of all these hedging instruments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully hedge against price, currency and interest rate fluctuations. Further, there can be no assurance that the use of hedging techniques will always be to our benefit. Some hedging instruments may prevent us from realizing the benefit from subsequent increases in market prices with respect to covered production. This limitation would limit our revenues and profits. Hedging contracts are also subject to the risk that the other party may be unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under these contracts. It is our intention to deliver the quantity of gold required by our forward sales on a going forward basis; however, we may cash settle these forward sale obligations if it is beneficial to us. Any significant nonperformance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in the supply of critical equipment and increases in prices of raw materials could adversely impact our operations. We are a significant consumer of electricity, mining equipment, fuels and mining-related raw materials, all of which we purchase from outside sources. Increases in prices of electricity, equipment, fuel and raw materials could adversely affect our operating expenses and profitability. Furthermore, failure to receive raw materials in a timely manner from third party suppliers could impair our ability to meet production schedules or our contractual commitments and thus adversely impact our revenues. From time to time, we obtain critical mining equipment from outside North America. Factors that can cause delays in the arrival of such equipment include weather, political unrest in countries from which equipment is sourced or through which it is delivered, terrorist attacks or related events in such countries or in the U.S., and work stoppages by suppliers or shippers. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our equipment or other key raw materials, implementing use of replacement equipment or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. -27- Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. We acquired auction rate securities in 2007 with a face value of $1.5 million. The securities were marketed by financial institutions with auction reset dates at 28 day intervals to provide short-term liquidity. All such auction rate securities were rated AAA when purchased, pursuant to our investment policy. Beginning in August 2007, a number of auctions failed and there is no assurance that auctions for the auction rate securities in our investment portfolio, which currently lack liquidity, will succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so as a result of a lack of buying demand. As at December 31, 2008, our auction rate securities held an adjusted cost basis and fair value of $1.1 million based on liquidity impairments to these securities and, during the second quarter of 2008, were downgraded to a AA rating. Uncertainties in the credit and capital markets could lead to further downgrades of our auction rate securities holdings and additional impairments. Furthermore, as a result of auction failures, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure our indebtedness. Substantially all of the Montana Tunnels assets and our Black Fox property are pledged to secure indebtedness outstanding under (i) the Facility Agreement, dated October 12, 2007 and as amended July 1, 2008, by and among Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc., Apollo Gold, Apollo Gold, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Apollo Gold, RMB Australia Holdings Limited and RMB Resources Inc. and (ii) the Facility Agreement, dated February 20, 2009, by and among Apollo Gold, Macquarie Bank Limited, RMB Australia Holdings Limited and RMB Resources Inc. Since these assets represent substantially all of our assets, we will not have access to additional secured lending with other financial institutions, which will require us to raise additional funds through unsecured debt and equity offerings, and covenants in our borrowing agreements limit our ability to incur unsecured indebtedness. Default under our debt obligations would entitle our lenders to foreclose on our assets. Our Huizopa exploration project is subject to political and regulatory uncertainty. Our Huizopa exploration project is located in the northern part of the Sierra Madres in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico. There are numerous risks inherent in conducting business in Mexico, including political and economic instability, exposure to currency fluctuations, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in staffing and managing operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, our ability to explore and develop our Huizopa exploration project is subject to maintaining satisfactory relations with the Ejido Huizopa, which is a group of local inhabitants who under Mexican law are granted rights to conduct agricultural activities and control surface access on the property. In 2006, we entered into an agreement with the Ejido Huizopa pursuant to which we agreed to make annual payments to the Ejido Huizopa in exchange for the right to use the land covering our mining concessions for all activities necessary for the exploration, development and production of potential ore deposits. There can be no assurances that the Ejido Huizopa will continue to honor the agreement. If we are unable to successfully manage our operations in Mexico or maintain satisfactory relations with the Ejido Huizopa, our development of the Huizopa property could be hindered or terminated and, as a result, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. -28- Our reserve estimates are potentially inaccurate. We estimate our reserves on our properties as either “proven reserves” or “probable reserves.” Our ore reserve figures and costs are primarily estimates and are not guarantees that we will recover the indicated quantities of these metals. We estimate proven reserve quantities based on sampling and testing of sites conducted by us and by independent companies hired by us. Probable reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are less extensive, and the degree of certainty is less. Reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available geological data and statistical inferences and is inherently imprecise and may prove to be unreliable. Our reserves are reduced as existing reserves are depleted through production. Reserves may be reduced due to lower than anticipated volume and grade of reserves mined and processed and recovery rates. Reserve estimates are calculated using assumptions regarding metals prices. Our reserves at our Black Fox project were estimated using a gold price of $650/oz. These prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of metals, as well as increased production costs, capital costs and reduced recovery rates, may render reserves uneconomic to exploit, and lead to a reduction in reserves. Any material reduction in our reserves may lead to lower earnings or higher losses, reduced cash flow, asset write-downs and other adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition, including difficulty in obtaining financing and a decrease in our stock price. Reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or future operations. No assurance can be given that the amount of metal estimated will be produced or the indicated level of recovery of these metals will be realized. Operational problems may occur in our Montana Tunnels mining and milling operations. It is common to encounter operational issues in mining and milling of ores. Since 2005, all of our revenues have been derived from our operations at the Montana Tunnels mine, which is a low-grade mine. During 2004, we experienced problems related to the milling of low-grade ore at the Montana Tunnels mine, which negatively affected our revenues and earnings. Throughout 2005, we experienced operational problems, particularly in the open pit, leading to the suspension of mining on October 21, 2005 for safety reasons due to increased wall activity in the open pit. After the suspension of mining and until May 12, 2006, we were able to continue to produce gold doré, lead-gold and zinc-gold concentrates from milling low-grade stockpiled ore. However, on May 12, 2006, all operations ceased at the mine and it was placed on care and maintenance. On July 28, 2006, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Elkhorn Tunnels, LLC, in respect of the Montana Tunnels mine pursuant to which Elkhorn Tunnels made financial contributions in exchange for a 50% interest in the mine. Mill operations recommenced in March 2007. In April and May 2008, the mill at the Montana Tunnels mine was shut down for approximately three weeks due to a crack in the exterior shell of the ball mill. There can be no assurances that we will not encounter additional operational problems at our Montana Tunnels mine or mill or other mines or mills we may operate in the future. We may not achieve our production estimates. We prepare estimates of future production for our operations. We develop our estimates based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. In the past, our actual production from time to time has been lower than our production estimates and this may be the case in the future. -29- Each of these factors also applies to future development properties not yet in production and to the Montana Tunnels M Pit. In the case of mines we may develop in the future, we do not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates, and there is a greater likelihood that the actual results will vary from the estimates. In addition, development and expansion projects are subject to financing contingencies, unexpected construction and start-up problems and delays. Our future profitability depends in part on actual economic returns and actual costs of developing mines, which may differ significantly from our estimates and involve unexpected problems, costs and delays. We are engaged in the development of new ore bodies. Our ability to sustain or increase our present level of production is dependent in part on the successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. Decisions about the development of the M Pit expansion at Montana Tunnels and other future projects, such as Huizopa, are subject to the successful completion of feasibility studies, issuance of necessary governmental permits and receipt of adequate financing. Development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. Our estimates of proven and probable ore reserves and cash operating costs are, to a large extent, based upon detailed geologic and engineering analysis. We also conduct feasibility studies that derive estimates of capital and operating costs based upon many factors. It is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our best estimates. It is not unusual in the mining industry for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase and to require more capital than anticipated. There can be no assurance that the Black Fox property that we are developing or any future M Pit expansion at Montana Tunnels will be profitable. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including adverse environmental effects, technical difficulties due to unusual or unexpected geologic formations, and pit wall failures as well as the associated risks of underground mining. Such risks could result in personal injury, environmental damage, damage to and destruction of production facilities, delays in mining and liability. For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience and industry practice. However, we may not be able to maintain current levels of insurance, particularly if there is a significant increase in the cost of premiums. Insurance against environmental risks is generally too expensive or not available for us and other companies in our industry, and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. To the extent we are subject to environmental liabilities, we would have to pay for these liabilities. Moreover, in the event that we are unable to fully pay for the cost of remediating an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend or significantly curtail operations or enter into other interim compliance measures. Mineral exploration in general, and gold exploration in particular, are speculative and are frequently unsuccessful. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, capital intensive, involves many risks and frequently is nonproductive. There can be no assurance that our mineral exploration efforts will be successful. If we discover a site with gold or other mineralization, it will take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result of these and other uncertainties, no assurance can be given that our exploration programs will result in the expansion or replacement of existing ore reserves that are being depleted by current production. -30- We have a limited operating history on which to evaluate our potential for future success. We were formed as a result of a merger in June 2002 and have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Over this period, with the exception of the fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we have not generated sufficient revenues to cover our expenses and costs. The titles to some of our properties may be uncertain or defective. Certain of our United States mineral rights of the Montana Tunnels mine consist of “unpatented” mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872. Unpatented mining claims are unique U.S. property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations that supplement the General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining claims and related rights, including rights to use the surface, are subject to possible challenges by third parties or contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively control the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered a number of proposed amendments to the General Mining Law. Although no such legislation has been adopted to date, there can be no assurance that such legislation will not be adopted in the future. If ever adopted, such legislation could, among other things, impose royalties on gold production from unpatented mining claims located on federal lands or impose fees on production from patented mining claims. If such legislation is ever adopted, it could have an adverse impact on earnings from our operations, could reduce estimates of our reserves and could curtail our future exploration and development activity on federal lands or patented claims. While we have no reason to believe that our rights to mine on any of our properties are in doubt, title to mining properties are subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them and, in September 2006 some of our claims associated with our Black Fox project were listed as reopened for staking on the Ministry of Northern Development and Mines (MNDM) website. Five of these claims totaling 185 acres were immediately staked by local prospectors. None of our reserves or resources at our Black Fox project are located on the properties related to these claims. All of these overstaked claims have since been returned to us. We may lose rights to properties if we fail to meet payment requirements or development or production schedules. We derive the rights to most of our mineral properties from unpatented mining claims, leaseholds, joint ventures or purchase option agreements which require the payment of maintenance fees, rents, purchase price installments, exploration expenditures, or other fees. If we fail to make these payments when they are due, our rights to the property may lapse. There can be no assurance that we will always make payments by the requisite payment dates. In addition, some contracts with respect to our mineral properties require development or production schedules. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet any or all of the development or production schedules. Our ability to transfer or sell our rights to some of our mineral properties requires government approvals or third party consents, which may not be granted. -31- We face substantial governmental regulation. Canadian Regulation. Our Black Fox mining operations and exploration activities in the Province of Ontario are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, agricultural zoning, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. The Canadian mining industry is subject to federal and provincial environmental protection legislation. This legislation imposes high standards on the mining industry in order to reduce or eliminate the effects of waste generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently emitted into the air or water. Consequently, drilling, refining, extracting and milling are all subject to the restrictions imposed by this legislation. In addition, the construction and commercial operation of a mine typically entail compliance with applicable environmental legislation and review processes, as well as the obtaining of permits, particularly for the use of the land, permits for the use of water, and similar authorizations from various government bodies. Canadian federal, provincial, and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for and development, production and marketing of mineral production, as well as environmental and safety matters have generally become more stringent in recent years, often imposing greater liability on a larger number of potentially responsible parties. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with such requirements. There is no assurance that laws and regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that it is in substantial compliance with all current laws and regulations material to our activities. However, changing government regulations may have an adverse effect on us. United States Regulation. Our U.S. mining operation is subject to inspection and regulation by the Mine Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor (“MSHA”) under the provisions of the Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) also has jurisdiction over safety and health standards not covered by MSHA. Our policy is to comply with applicable directives and regulations of MSHA and OSHA. We have made and expect to make in the future, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. We must comply with environmental standards, laws and regulations that may result in increased costs and delays depending on the nature of the regulated activity and how stringently the regulations are implemented by the regulatory authority. The costs and delays associated with compliance with such laws and regulations could stop us from proceeding with the exploration of a project or the operation or future exploration of a mine. Laws and regulations involving the protection and remediation of the environment and the governmental policies for implementation of such laws and regulations are constantly changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. We have made, and expect to make in the future, significant expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. -32- Some of our properties are located in historic mining districts with past production and abandoned mines. The major historical mine workings and processing facilities owned (wholly or partially) by us in Montana are being targeted by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (“MDEQ”) for publicly funded cleanup, which reduces our exposure to financial liability. We are participating with the MDEQ under Voluntary Cleanup Plans on those sites. Our cleanup responsibilities have been completed at the Corbin Flats Facility and at the Gregory Mine site, both located in Jefferson County, Montana, under programs involving cooperative efforts with the MDEQ. MDEQ is also contemplating remediation of the Washington Mine site at public expense under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (“SMCRA”). In February 2004, we consented to MDEQ’s entry onto the portion of the Washington Mine site owned by us to undertake publicly funded remediation under SMCRA. In March 2004, we entered into a definitive written settlement agreement with MDEQ and the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) under which MDEQ will conduct publicly funded remediation of the Wickes Smelter site under SMCRA and granted us a site release in exchange for our donation of the portion of the site owned by us to BLM for use as a waste repository. There can be no assurance that we will continue to resolve disputed liability for historical mine and ore processing facility waste sites on such favorable terms in the future. We remain exposed to liability, or assertions of liability, that would require expenditure of legal defense costs, under joint and several liability statutes for cleanups of historical wastes that have not yet been completed. Environmental laws and regulations may also have an indirect impact on us, such as increased costs for electricity due to acid rain provisions of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Charges by refiners to which we sell our metallic concentrates and products have substantially increased over the past several years because of requirements that refiners meet revised environmental quality standards. We have no control over the refiners’ operations or their compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Changes to the current laws and regulations governing the operations and activities of mining companies, including changes to the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872, and permitting, environmental, title, health and safety, labor and tax laws, are actively considered from time to time. We cannot predict which changes may be considered or adopted and changes in these laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Expenses associated with the compliance with new laws or regulations could be material. Further, increased expenses could prevent or delay exploration or mine development projects and could therefore affect future levels of mineral production. We are subject to environmental risks. Environmental Liability. We are subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with environmental compliance and the disposal of waste rock and materials that could occur as a result of our mineral exploration and production. To the extent that we are subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that we may incur to remedy any non-compliance with environmental laws would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on us. We have not purchased insurance for environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) because it is not generally available at a reasonable price or at all. Environmental Permits. All of our exploration, development and production activities are subject to regulation under one or more of the various state, federal and provincial environmental laws and regulations in Canada, Mexico and the U.S. Many of the regulations require us to obtain permits for our activities. We must update and review our permits from time to time, and are subject to environmental impact analyses and public review processes prior to approval of the additional activities. It is possible that future changes in applicable laws, regulations and permits or changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could have a significant impact on some portion of our business, causing those activities to be economically reevaluated at that time. Those risks include, but are not limited to, the risk that regulatory authorities may increase bonding requirements beyond our financial capabilities. The posting of bonds in accordance with regulatory determinations is a condition to the right to operate under all material operating permits, and therefore increases in bonding requirements could prevent our operations from continuing even if we were in full compliance with all substantive environmental laws. -33- We face strong competition from other mining companies for the acquisition of new properties. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we may seek to replace and expand our reserves through the acquisition of new properties. In addition, there is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available in the United States, Canada and Mexico and other areas where we would consider conducting exploration and/or production activities. Because we face strong competition for new properties from other mining companies, most of which have greater financial resources than we do, we may be unable to acquire attractive new mining properties. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are currently dependent upon the ability and experience of R. David Russell, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Richard F. Nanna, our Senior Vice President-Exploration; and Melvyn Williams, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President-Finance and Corporate Development. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key officers and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any or all of such officers. We currently do not carry key person insurance on any of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our operations. There may be certain tax risks associated with investments in our company. U.S. persons who are potential holders of our common shares, warrants or options to purchase our common shares, or debentures convertible into our common shares, which we sometimes refer to in this report as equity securities, should be aware that we could constitute a “passive foreign investment company” (or a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The tests for determining PFIC status for a taxable year depend upon the relative values of certain categories of assets and the relative amounts of certain kinds of income. The application of these factors depends upon our financial results for the year, which is beyond our ability to predict or control, and may be subject to legal and factual uncertainties. While we do not believe that we were a PFIC in 2008 and do not expect to be a PFIC in 2009, we cannot guarantee that we were not a PFIC in 2008 and we are unable to predict whether we will be a PFIC 2009 or in later years. We undertake no obligation to advise investors as to our PFIC status for any year. If we are a PFIC for any year, any holder of our equity securities who is a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which we sometimes refer to in this report as a U.S. holder, and whose holding period for the equity securities includes any portion of a year in which we are a PFIC generally would be subject to a special adverse tax regime in respect of “excess distributions.” Excess distributions would include certain distributions received with respect to our common shares. Gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a sale or other transfer of our equity securities also would be treated as an excess distribution. Under the PFIC rules, excess distributions would be allocated ratably to a U.S. holder’s holding period. For this purpose, the holding period of common shares acquired through either an exercise of warrants or options or a conversion of debentures includes the holder’s holding period in those warrants, options, or convertible debentures. The portion of any excess distributions (including gains treated as excess distributions) allocated to the current year would be includible as ordinary income in the current year. In contrast, the portion of any excess distributions allocated to prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal rate applicable to ordinary income for each year (regardless of the taxpayer’s actual marginal rate for that year and without reduction by any losses or loss carryforwards) and would be subject to interest charges to reflect the value of the U.S. federal income tax deferral. -34- Elections may be available to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs (the so-called “QEF” and “mark-to-market” elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income. The QEF and mark-to-market elections are not available to U.S. holders with respect to warrants, options, or convertible debentures. We have not decided whether we will provide the U.S. Holders of our common shares with the annual information required to make a QEF election. Additional special adverse rules could apply to our equity securities if we are a PFIC and have a non-U.S. subsidiary that is also a PFIC. Finally, special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our equity securities if we are a PFIC. You could have difficulty or be unable to enforce certain civil liabilities on us, certain of our directors and our experts. We are a Yukon Territory, Canada, corporation. While our chief executive officer is located in the United States, many of our assets are located outside of the United States. Additionally, a number of our directors are residents of Canada. It might not be possible for investors in the United States to collect judgments obtained in United States courts predicated on the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities legislation. It could also be difficult for you to effect service of process in connection with any action brought in the United States upon such directors and experts. Execution by United States courts of any judgment obtained against us, or any of the directors, executive officers or experts identified in this report or documents incorporated by reference herein, in United States courts would be limited to the assets, or the assets of such persons or corporations, as the case might be, in the United States. The enforceability in Canada of United States judgments or liabilities in original actions in Canadian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States is doubtful. -35- 