Risk Factors.” Recent Developments Letter of Intent with Linear Gold Corp. General. On March 9, 2010, Apollo and Linear Gold Corp. (“Linear”) entered into a binding letter of intent (the “Letter of Intent”) pursuant to which it is expected that (i) the businesses of Apollo and Linear would be combined by way of a court-approved plan of arrangement (the “Arrangement”) pursuant to the provisions of the Canada Business Corporations Act (“CBCA”) and (ii) Linear would subscribe for approximately 62,500,000 common shares (the “Purchased Shares”) of Apollo at a price of Cdn$0.40 per common share for aggregate proceeds of Cdn$25.0 million (the “Private Placement”). Structure. As set forth in the Letter of Intent, pursuant to the Arrangement: · each outstanding Linear common share will be exchanged for 5.4742 Apollo common shares (the “Exchange Ratio”); · each outstanding common share purchase warrant of Linear (the “Linear Warrants”) will be exchanged for common share purchase warrants of Apollo (the “Apollo Warrants”) on the basis of the Exchange Ratio and the exercise price of the Linear Warrants will be adjusted as provided for in the certificates representing the Linear Warrants; · each outstanding option to purchase a Linear common share (the “Linear Options”) granted under Linear’s Stock Option Plan will be exchanged for options of Apollo (the “Apollo Options”) granted under Apollo’s Stock Option Plan on the basis of the Exchange Ratio and the exercise price of the Linear Options will be adjusted on the same basis as the exercise price of the Linear Warrants; provided that current employees of Linear holding Linear Options whose employment is terminated in connection with the Arrangement will have their Linear Options exchanged for Apollo Options which shall expire on the earlier of: (i) the current expiry date of the corresponding Linear Options; and (ii) the first anniversary of the date of completion of the Arrangement, regardless of whether such employees are otherwise “eligible persons” under the terms of the Apollo Stock Option Plan or applicable Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”) rules; and · each outstanding Apollo Option held by current directors of Apollo that will not continue to be directors of Apollo upon completion of the Arrangement would be amended to provide that such Apollo Options shall expire on the earlier of: (i) the current expiry date of such Apollo Options; and (ii) the first anniversary of the date of completion of the Arrangement, regardless whether such directors are “eligible persons” under the terms of the Apollo Stock Option Plan or applicable TSX rules. -17- Upon consummation of the Arrangement, Linear would become a wholly owned subsidiary of Apollo and the shareholders of Linear immediately prior to the Arrangement are expected to own approximately 42.9% of the outstanding common stock of Apollo (calculated on a fully-diluted basis). Board of Directors and other Matters. Upon consummation of the Arrangement, the Letter of Intent contemplates that: · Apollo and Linear will agree on a new name for Apollo; and · The Board of Directors of Apollo would consist of seven directors, which would be composed of (i) Wade Dawe (the current President and Chief Executive Officer of Linear), who would be nominated as the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) four current Apollo board members or Apollo nominees, (iii) one Linear nominee and (iv) one nominee who shall be a technical person mutually agreed upon by Apollo and Linear. Definitive Business Combination Agreement. The Letter of Intent contemplates that Linear and Apollo will enter into a definitive arrangement agreement (the “Definitive Agreement”) governing the Arrangement on or before March 31, 2010 to implement the Arrangement to provide for the business combination of Linear and Apollo. Support Agreements. The Letter of Intent provides that it is a condition to Apollo proceeding with the Arrangement that all directors and officers of Linear enter into support agreements (the “Linear Support Agreements”) under which they agree to vote in favor of the Arrangement all of the Linear common shares currently owned or controlled by them, being an aggregate of 3,415,887 Linear common shares representing, in aggregate, approximately 6.21% of the outstanding Linear common shares (calculated on a fully-diluted basis). In addition, the Letter of Intent provides that it is a condition to Linear proceeding with the Arrangement that all directors and officers of Apollo enter into support agreements (the “Apollo Support Agreements” and, together with the Linear Support Agreements, the “Support Agreements”) under which they agree to vote in favor of the Arrangement all of the Apollo common shares currently owned or controlled by them, being an aggregate of 3,736,273 Apollo common shares representing, in aggregate, approximately 1.0% of the outstanding Apollo common shares (calculated on a fully-diluted basis). The Support Agreements will include the typical covenants, including, but not limited to, covenants that the subject shareholders will: · immediately cease and terminate existing discussions, if any, with respect to any potential business combination involving, Linear or Apollo, as the case may be, or any material part of their respective assets (in the case of Linear, a “Linear Proposal” or, in the case of Apollo, an “Apollo Proposal”) and will not make, solicit, assist, initiate, encourage or otherwise facilitate any inquiries, proposals or offers from any person (other than as contemplated by the Letter of Intent) relating to any Linear Proposal or Apollo Proposal, as the case may be, or participate in, any discussions or negotiations regarding any information with respect to any Linear Proposal or Apollo Proposal, as the case may be; · not sell, transfer or encumber in any way any of the subject shareholder’s shares or securities convertible into such shares or restrict such shareholder’s right to vote any of its shares, other than pursuant to the Arrangement; and -18- · vote all the subject shareholder’s shares against any proposed action, other than in connection with the Arrangement in respect of any amalgamation, merger, sale of Linear’s or Apollo’s, as applicable, or their respective affiliates’ or associates’ assets, take-over bid, plan of arrangement, reorganization, recapitalization, shareholder rights plan, liquidation or winding-up of, reverse take-over or other business combination or similar transaction involving Linear or Apollo, as the case may be, or any of its subsidiaries; (a) which would reasonably be regarded as being directed towards or likely to prevent or delay the successful completion of the Arrangement or an alternative transaction, or (b) which would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect with respect to Linear or Apollo, as the case may be. In addition, pursuant to the Letter of Intent, each of Linear and Apollo would agree to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain similar support agreements from significant institutional shareholders. Conditions to Consummation of Arrangement. The Letter of Intent provides that each party’s obligation to proceed with the Arrangement is subject to customary conditions precedent, including without limitation conditions relating to (i) material accuracy of representations and warranties as of the effective date of the Arrangement, (ii) material compliance with covenants, (iii) the absence of any material adverse change, (iv) absence of certain actions, suits, proceedings or objection or opposition before any governmental or regulatory authority, (v) absence of material breaches under the Letter of Intent, (vi) approval of the securityholders of Linear and Apollo of the transactions set forth in the Letter of Intent for which their approval is required under applicable law, (vii) approval Superior Court of Justice of Ontario (the “Court”) of the Arrangement, (viii) obtaining all material consents, waivers, permissions and approvals necessary to complete the Arrangement by or from relevant third parties and (ix) holders of not more than 5% of each of the issued and outstanding Linear common shares and Apollo common shares shall have exercised rights of dissent in relation to the Arrangement. Securityholder Approval. The Arrangement will be subject to the approval of holders of not less than 66 2/3% of the Linear common shares and of a majority of the Apollo common shares held by disinterested shareholders voted at special meetings of shareholders that will be called to approve the Arrangement. Non-Solicitation. The Letter of Intent includes mutual agreements by each of Linear and Apollo to immediately cease, and not to solicit or initiate discussions concerning, any alternative transactions to the proposed Arrangement. However, each of Linear and Apollo may take certain specified actions in response to an unsolicited alternative transaction that the board of directors of such party deems to be a “superior proposal” meeting the requirements set forth in the Letter of Intent. The Letter of Intent also provides that each of Apollo and Linear have certain other customary rights in respect of alternative transactions, including a right to match competing offers in certain circumstances. Break Fee. If either Linear or Apollo terminates the Letter of Intent or the Definitive Agreement and abandons the Arrangement prior to closing for any reason (other than as a result of the failure of a condition to such party’s obligation to close contained in the Letter of Intent or the Definitive Agreement not being satisfied, other than a failure to obtain the required approval of such party’s shareholders (as described above)), such terminating party shall pay to the other party an amount equal to Cdn$4,000,000. Covenants relating to Operation of Business. Pursuant to the Letter of Intent, each party agrees that during the period from the date of execution of the Letter of Intent and ending on the earlier of the consummation of the Arrangement or the termination of the Letter of Intent, except as required by law or as otherwise expressly permitted or specifically contemplated by the Letter of Intent, it shall conduct its business only in the usual and ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice and it shall use all reasonable commercial efforts to maintain and preserve its business, assets and advantageous business relationships. In addition, during such period, each party agrees to restrictions with respect to, among other things, (i) amending its constating documents, (ii) dividends, distributions, issuances, redemptions, repurchases or reclassifications of its capital stock, (iii) adopting a plan of liquidation or resolutions providing for its liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or reorganization, (iv) sales, pledges or disposition of its assets, (v) capital expenditures, (vi) asset acquisitions, (vii) business acquisitions, (viii) indebtedness, (ix) material contract rights, (x) entry into or termination of hedges or other financial instruments or transactions, (xi) employee and director compensation, (xii) changes to employee plans and (xiii) maintenance of insurance policies. -19- Other. The Letter of Intent also provides that, among other things: · Management terminations, buyouts and severance payments will be paid out to Linear management and staff on closing of the Arrangement in accordance with management contracts and common law amounts and are expected to total approximately Cdn$3,400,000; · Prior to the completion of the Arrangement, Apollo shall purchase and maintain director and officer liability “run-off” insurance for the benefit of the former directors and officers of Linear for a period of not less than six (6) years following the completion of the Arrangement, with coverage of not less than Cdn$10,000,000, with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred on or before the closing of the Arrangement, including with respect to the Arrangement; · Apollo will pay the fees and expenses of Linear in connection with the Private Placement up to a maximum of Cdn$50,000; and · Customary representations and warranties from each of Apollo and Linear. Termination of Letter of Intent. The Letter of Intent may be terminated (i) by mutual written consent of each of Apollo and Linear; (ii) by a party which accepts, recommends, approves or enters into an agreement to implement a “superior proposal” (as defined in the Letter of Intent) after having complied with the terms of the Letter of Intent (provided that concurrently with any such termination, the terminating party shall have paid the Cdn$4,000,000 break fee described above following which the payor party shall have no further liabilities arising hereunder other than for a breach of any section of the Letter of Intent); and (iii) by either party if the Definitive Agreement is not executed by each of the parties on or before 5:00 pm (Toronto time) on March 31, 2010 (provided that concurrently with any such termination, the terminating party shall have paid the Cdn$4,000,000 break fee described above following which the payor party shall have no further liabilities arising hereunder other than for a breach of any section of the Letter of Intent). Subscription Agreement with Linear in respect of Private Placement Concurrently with the execution of the Letter of Intent, Apollo and Linear entered into a subscription agreement providing for the Private Placement (the “Subscription Agreement”). Pursuant to the Letter of Intent and the Subscription Agreement, the closing of the Private Placement is subject to customary conditions precedent, including conditions relating to: (i) receipt of all necessary stock exchange approvals, (ii) delivery by Apollo of customary corporate and securities law opinions and title opinions, (iii) each of Macquarie Bank Limited and RMB Australia Holdings Limited (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “ Project Facility Banks”) shall have entered into a support agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Linear, pursuant to which each Project Facility Bank agrees, among other things, to support and vote in favor of the Arrangement; and (iv) each of the Project Facility Banks shall have entered into a lock-up agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Linear, pursuant to which each Bank agrees, among other things, not to, directly or indirectly, exercise or offer, sell, contract to sell, lend, swap, or enter into any other agreement to transfer the economic consequences of any of the common shares or common share purchase warrants of Apollo held by them until December 31, 2010. The closing of the Private Placement is expected to occur on or before March 19, 2010. -20- The Subscription Agreement includes other covenants, representations and warranties customary for transactions of this type. The Private Placement will be conducted in reliance on the exemption from registration contained in Regulation S of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Arrangement is expected to close on or before July 2, 2010. As part of the Arrangement, the Apollo common shares expected to be issued to Linear in the Private Placement will be cancelled without any payment. The Private Placement will not be conditioned on the completion of the Arrangement. If the Arrangement is not completed for any reason, Apollo has agreed to, upon the request of Linear, file a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission to register the resale of the Apollo common shares by Linear in the United States. Black Fox Financing Agreement On February 20, 2009, we entered into a $70.0 million project financing agreement (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Project Facility”) with the Macquarie Bank Limited and RMB Australia Holdings Limited (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Project Facility Banks”) and RMB Resources Inc. (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Agent”), as agent for the Project Facility Banks. By June 2, 2009, the Company had borrowed the total amount of the $70.0 million available under the Project Facility. As a result of lower than planned gold production, during the third quarter of 2009 a “review event” as defined in the Project Facility was triggered. The occurrence of a review event allows the Banks to review the Project Facility and determine if they wish to continue with the Project Facility. In addition, we were unable to make (i) the first scheduled repayment of $9.3 million due on September 30, 2009 under the Project Facility (the “First Repayment”), (ii) the second scheduled repayment of $6.0 million due on December 31, 2009 (the “Second Repayment”) and (iii) the requirement to fund the associated debt service reserve account (the “Funding Obligation”) also due on September 30, 2009. Through three separate deferrals, the last of which was granted on February 25, 2010, the Banks agreed to defer the First Repayment, the Second Repayment and the Funding obligation until March 31, 2010. In connection with the Letter of Intent executed with Linear, on March 9, 2010, the Project Facility Banks executed and delivered a consent letter (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Consent Letter”), which was agreed to and accepted by each of Apollo and Linear, pursuant to which the Project Facility Banks and the Agent agreed, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Consent Letter: · to consent to the Arrangement (the “Consent”); · prior to the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the Agent determines, acting reasonably, that the Arrangement has been terminated or will not be completed, (ii) March 31, 2009, if the Definitive Agreements in respect of the Arrangement have not been executed by such date, or (iii) September 30, 2010, not to make demand, accelerate payment or enforce any security or any other remedies upon an “event of default” or a “review event” under the Project Facility unless and until the occurrence of certain “override events” set forth in to the Consent Letter (which “override events” are primarily related to breaches of certain covenants and provisions of the Consent Letter and the Project Facility) (the “Standstill Provisions”); and -21- · to amend certain provisions of the Project Facility, including without limitation the following revised repayment schedule: Repayment Date Repayment Amount The earlier of two business days following completion of the Private Placement and March 19, 2010 $ 10,000,000 The earlier of July 2, 2010 and the date that is two business days following the consummation of the Arrangement $ 10,000,000 The earlier of September 30, 2010 and the date on which the proceeds from any one or more equity raisings following the consummation of the Arrangement equals $10,000,000 $ 10,000,000 December 31, 2010 $ 5,000,000 The remaining repayment dates between March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2013 to be agreed between Apollo and the Agent by no later than September 30, 2010 to reflect the “cashflow model” (as defined under the Project Facility) that is approved by the Agent. In the absence of agreement between Apollo and the Agent by September 30, 2010. “secured moneys” (as defined under the Project Facility) shall be due and payable on December 31, 2010. $ 35,000,000 The Project Facility Banks’ agreement to the Consent and the Standstill Provisions is subject to a number of conditions, including without limitation (i) delivery of the Apollo Support Agreement (as defined above)in connection with the Letter of Intent in a form and substance satisfactory to the Agent, (ii) prior approval by the Project Facility Banks of press releases and other public statements regarding the Arrangement that refer to the Project Facility Banks, (iii) the Agent, acting reasonably, approving the Definitive Agreements and such Definitive Agreements being executed by no later than March 31, 2010, (iv) the Agent, acting reasonably, being satisfied that the completion of the Arrangement will not cause a breach or default under any “project documents” (as defined in the Project Facility), (v) the Agent, acting reasonably, being satisfied that the Arrangement will not have any material negative tax implications for Apollo, Linear and each of their direct or indirect subsidiaries, (vi) the Agent being satisfied, acting reasonably, that, immediately following completion of the Arrangement and after making the payment of $10,000,000 contemplated by the second row in the repayment schedule set forth above, Apollo having restricted cash on hand of not less than Cdn$10,000,000, (vii) no amendment to the Definitive Agreements, no representation in the Definitive Agreements being untrue, no breach of any material covenant and no waiver of any material condition precedent in the Definitive Agreements, and (viii) at completion of the Arrangement, the Agent, acting reasonably, being satisfied regarding indebtedness and encumbrances of Linear and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Extension of Maturity Date for February 2007 Convertible Debentures held by RAB On February 23, 2007, the Company concluded a private placement pursuant to which it sold $8,580,000 aggregate principal amount of convertible debentures due February 23, 2009 (the “Convertible Debentures”). As originally issued, each $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Debentures was convertible at the option of the holder into 2,000 of the Company’s common shares, at any time until February 23, 2009. Additionally, each $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Debentures included 2,000 common share purchase warrants entitling the holder thereof to purchase one of the Company’s common shares at an exercise price of $0.50 per share, which such warrants originally expired on February 23, 2009 (the “Warrants”). -22- On February 16, 2009, the Company and RAB Special Situations (Master) Fund Limited (”RAB”), which owns $4,290,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Debentures and 8,580,000 Warrants, entered into an agreement (the “First Amending Agreement”) pursuant to which RAB agreed to extend the maturity date of its Convertible Debentures to February 23, 2010 (the “RAB Convertible Debentures”). In consideration for the foregoing, the Company (i) issued 2,000,000 common shares of the Company to RAB, (ii) extended the maturity date of the Warrants issued to RAB to February 23, 2010 (the “RAB Warrants”) and (iii) reduced the exercise price of the RAB Warrants from $0.50 to $0.25. The Company filed a Form 8-K with the SEC on February 19, 2009 disclosing the terms of the First Amending Agreement. On February 26, 2010, the Company and RAB entered into a third amending agreement (the “Third Amending Agreement”) (which amended and restated in its entirety a second amending agreement entered into on February 23, 2010) pursuant to which RAB agreed to further extend the maturity date of the RAB Convertible Debentures to August 23, 2010 and, in consideration therefor, the Company agreed to repay the $772,200 of accrued interest through February 23, 2010 on the RAB Convertible Debentures in cash and agreed to issue to RAB (i) 800,000 common shares of the Company and (ii) 2,145,000 common share purchase warrants (the “New Warrants”), which New Warrants entitle RAB to purchase one of the Company’s common shares at an exercise price of $0.50 per share at any time before 5:00 p.m. (Toronto time) on February 23, 2011. Purchase of Duffy Promissory Note On March 12, 2010, the Company, Calais Resources Colorado, Inc. (“Calais Colorado”), Calais Resources, Inc. (“Calais Resources” and, together with Calais Colorado, “Calais”) and Duane A. Duffy, Glenn E. Duffy, Luke Garvey and James Ober, (collectively, the “Duffy Group”) entered into a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Purchase Agreement, to issue 1,592,733 common shares to the Duffy Group in exchange for the assignment of their rights, title and interest in and to, among other things, a debt obligation owed by Calais (the “Loan”) as more fully described below. The Loan is evidenced by a promissory note dated August 11, 2005, in the original principal amount of $807,650 (the “Promissory Note”), and is secured by a deed of trust in favor of the Duffy Group recorded against property owned by Calais located in Boulder County, Colorado. The Duffy Group’ security interests in the property against which the Promissory Note is secured are to be transferred to the Company as part of the transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Calais agreed to issue Calais Resources common shares to the Duffy Group in payment of $435,347 of the outstanding balance of principal and accrued interest and fees of the Promissory Note (the “Calais Share Issuance”). Immediately following the Calais Share Issuance, the outstanding balance of the Promissory Note (including accrued interest thereon) will be $653,020. The Promissory Note matured on December 31, 2009 and was not repaid. On January 2, 2010, the Duffy Group called the Loan due and payable and provided notice to Calais of the payment default on the Promissory Note. In accordance with the terms of the Promissory Note, following an uncured default on the Promissory Note, the Promissory Note bears interest at the rate of 24%. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to forebear from enforcing its right to collect principal and interest outstanding under the Promissory Note until March 12, 2011 and reduce the interest rate on the Promissory Note during that period to 8%. In addition to the foregoing provision, the Purchase Agreement includes customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities for transactions of this type. -23- Available Information We maintain a link to investor information on our website, www.apollogold.com, where we make available, free of charge, our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also make available on our website copies of the charters of the audit, compensation, technical and nominating committees of our board of directors, our code of business conduct and ethics and our corporate governance principles. Shareholders may request a printed copy of these governance materials or any exhibit to this report by writing to our Vice President of Investor Relations, Apollo Gold Corporation, 5655 S. Yosemite Street, Suite 200, Greenwood Village, CO 80111. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains the documents we file with the SEC. Our website and the information contained on or connected to our website are not incorporated by reference herein and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to historical information, the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking” statements about our future business and performance. Our actual operating results and financial performance may be very different from what we expect as of the date of this report. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. Failure to complete the business combination with Linear could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. On March 9, 2010, we entered into a binding letter of intent (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Letter of Intent”) with Linear pursuant to which (i) the businesses of Apollo Gold and Linear would be combined upon the implementation of a plan of arrangement under the provisions of the Canada Business Corporations Act (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Arrangement”) and (ii) Linear would purchase approximately 62,500,000 of our common shares at a price of Cdn$0.40 per common share in a private placement for aggregate proceeds to us of Cdn$25.0 million (which we sometimes refer to herein as the “Private Placement”). The Letter of Intent contains a number of important conditions that must be satisfied before we can complete the proposed Arrangement, including, among other things, (i) material accuracy of representations and warranties as of the effective date of the Arrangement, (ii) material compliance with covenants, (iii) the absence of any material adverse change, (iv) absence of certain actions, suits, proceedings or objection or opposition before any governmental or regulatory authority, (v) absence of material breaches under the Letter of Intent, (vi) approval of the securityholders of Linear and Apollo of the transactions set forth in the Letter of Intent for which their approval is required under applicable law, (vii) approval Superior Court of Justice of Ontario of the Arrangement, (viii) obtaining all material consents, waivers, permissions and approvals necessary to complete the Arrangement by or from relevant third parties and (ix) holders of not more than 5% of each of the issued and outstanding Linear common shares and Apollo common shares shall have exercised rights of dissent in relation to the Arrangement. -24- If the proposed business combination with Linear is not completed for any reason, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected. For example, the amended repayment schedule under the Project Facility with the Project Facility Banks agreed to on March 9, 2010 requires us to pay $10,000,000 upon the earlier to occur of July 2, 2010 and two business days following the consummation of the Arrangement. If the Arrangement with Linear is not consummated, we may not have sufficient cash-on-hand to meet this and the other repayment obligations under the Project Facility or under the $4,290,000 principal amount of convertible debentures due August 23, 2010 owned by RAB. In addition, if the proposed business combination with Linear is not completed, we will be subject to a number of additional risks, including the following: · Under the terms of the Letter of Intent with Linear, in certain circumstances, if the Arrangement is not completed, we will be required to pay a Cdn$4,000,000 termination fee to Linear; and · The price of our common shares may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common shares reflect a market assumption that the proposed business combination will be completed and that the related benefits and synergies will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the business combination was not consummated due to an adverse change in our business or financial condition. In addition, the pendency of the proposed business combination with Linear could adversely affect our operations because: · matters relating to proposed business combination with Linear (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management and employees, whether or not the transaction is completed, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; · our ability to attract new employees and consultants and retain our existing employees and consultants may be harmed by uncertainties associated with proposed business combination, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel or consultants; and · shareholder lawsuits could be filed against us challenging the proposed business combination. If this occurs, even if the lawsuits are groundless and we ultimately prevail, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses defending these lawsuits, and the proposed business combination may be prevented or delayed. We cannot guarantee when, or whether, the proposed business combination with Linear will be completed, that there will not be a delay in the completion of the business combination or that all or any of the anticipated benefits of this transaction will be obtained. If this transaction is not completed or is delayed, we may experience the risks discussed above which may adversely affect our business, financial results and share price. -25- If we are able to complete the proposed business combination with Linear, we may fail to successfully integrate our businesses which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Business combinations involve numerous risks, including liabilities that we may assume from Linear, difficulties in assimilation of the operations and personnel of Linear, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of exploring properties or operating in locations in which we have no direct prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. If we are able to complete the proposed business combination with Linear, our shareholders will experience immediate dilution as a consequence of the issuance of our shares as consideration in the transaction. The existence of a large minority share position may reduce the influence that our current shareholders have on the management of the combined company. If the proposed business combination with Linear is completed, the influence of our current shareholders, in their capacity as shareholders of the combined company, will be significantly reduced. If the proposed business combination is completed, our current shareholders would hold, in the aggregate, approximately 52.2% of the issued and outstanding shares of the combined company and Linear’s current shareholders would hold, in the aggregate, approximately 47.8% of the combined company (based on the number of Apollo common shares and Linear common shares outstanding as of the date hereof). Therefore, the former Linear shareholders will have the ability to exercise influence over the election of directors and other issues submitted to the shareholders of the combined company. A “review event” has occurred under our Black Fox Project Facility and we have been unable to make the first two originally scheduled repayments thereunder. As a result of lower than planned gold production, during the third quarter of 2009 a “review event” as defined in the Project Facility was triggered. The occurrence of a review event allows the Banks to review the Project Facility and determine if they wish to continue with the Project Facility. In addition, we were unable to make (i) the first scheduled repayment of $9.3 million due on September 30, 2009 under the Project Facility (the “First Repayment”), (ii) the second scheduled repayment of $6.0 million due on December 31, 2009 (the “Second Repayment”) and (iii) the requirement to fund the associated debt service reserve account (the “Funding Obligation”) also due on September 30, 2009. Through three separate deferrals, the last of which was granted on February 25, 2010, the Banks agreed to defer the First Repayment, the Second Repayment and the Funding obligation until March 31, 2010. Furthermore, on March 9, 2010, the Project Facility Banks executed and delivered the Consent Letter pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Consent Letter, the Project Facility Banks agreed prior to the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the Agent determines, acting reasonably, that the proposed business combination with Linear has been terminated or will not be completed, (ii) March 31, 2009, if the definitive agreements in respect of the proposed business combination with Linear have not been executed by such date, or (iii) September 30, 2010, to not make demand, accelerate payment or enforce any security or any other remedies upon an “event of default” or a “review event” under the Project Facility unless and until the occurrence of certain “override events” (the “Standstill Agreement”) Pursuant to the Consent, the Project Facility Banks also agreed to amend certain provisions of the Project Facility, including revising the repayment schedule thereunder as described in more above under the heading “Item 1 – Background – Recent Developments.” However, the Project Facility Banks’ Standstill Agreement is subject to a number of conditions, including those set forth above under the heading “Item 1 – Background – Recent Developments.” Consequently, there is no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy these conditions to the Project Facility Banks’ Standstill Agreement. Any default under the Project Facility may result in the Project Facility Banks foreclosing on our assets which could force us to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws and, accordingly, would materially impair the value of our common shares. -26- Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition; and our related debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to invest in and grow our businesses. We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $93.9 million in short- and long-term debt outstanding. Under the revised repayment schedule relating to Project Facility that was agreed to with the Project Facility Banks on March 9, 2010 we will be required to make repayments totaling at least $35 million in 2010, with the remaining $35 million to be repaid between March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2013 on dates to be agreed to by Apollo and the Project Facility Banks. If we are unable to agree on a repayment schedule with respect to this remaining $35 million, it will become due and payable on December 31, 2010. The interest rate on this loan is floating based on the LIBOR rate plus 7 percent per annum; accordingly, if the LIBOR rate is increased, interest expense will be higher. The maturity date on this loan is March 31, 2013(subject to all amounts becoming due and payable on December 31, 2010 if we are unable to agree to a revised repayment schedule as noted above in this risk factor). We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our Black Fox project, which is currently expected to be our only source of significant revenues. Because we anticipate that a substantial portion of the cash generated by our operations will be used to service this loan during its term, such funds will not be available to use in future operations, or investing in our businesses. The foregoing may adversely impact our ability to repay the $4,290,000 principal amount of convertible debentures due August 23, 2010 owned by RAB and conduct all of our planned exploration activities at our Grey Fox, Pike River, and Huizopa properties or pursue other corporate opportunities. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from Black Fox operations in 2010 or by raising additional equity or debt financing in the near term, then we may not be able to meet our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $93.9 million in short- and long-term debt outstanding. Currently, we are not generating positive cash flow. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service, we may not be able to continue our operations. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our debt obligations or satisfy any additional debt obligations when they become due and may have to raise additional financing from the sale of equity or debt securities, enter into commercial transactions or otherwise restructure our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that any such financing or restructuring will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, and our existing debt agreements prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders thereunder. If we are unable to restructure our obligations, we may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any restructuring or bankruptcy would materially impair the value of our common shares. Operational problems may disrupt mining and milling operations at Black Fox. Mining and milling operations, including our Black Fox mine and mill, inherently involve risks and hazards. Although we commenced mining of the Black Fox open pit in March 2009, commenced milling in April 2009, and commenced commercial production in late May 2009, future production at Black Fox could be prevented, delayed or disrupted by, among other things: · unanticipated changes in grade and tonnage of material to be mined and processed; · unanticipated adverse geotechnical conditions; · adverse weather conditions; · incorrect data on which engineering assumptions are made; · availability and cost of labor and other supplies and equipment; · availability of economic sources of power; -27- · adequacy of access to the site; · unanticipated transportation costs; · government regulations (including regulations relating to prices, royalties, duties, taxes, restrictions on production, quotas on exportation of minerals, as well as the costs of protection of the environment and agricultural lands); · lower than expected ore grades; · the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable to mining or treatment than expected; · delivery and installation of equipment necessary to continue operations as planned; or · failure of our equipment, processes or facilities to operate properly or as expected. Production delays or stoppages will adversely affect our sales and operating results, and could prevent us from meeting our debt repayment obligations under the project facility agreement. We do not currently have and may not be able to raise sufficient funds to explore our Grey Fox, Pike River, and Huizopa properties. We do not currently have sufficient funds to conduct all of our planned exploration activities at our Grey Fox, Pike River, and Huizopa properties. The exploration of these properties will require significant capital expenditures. Sources of external financing may include bank and non-bank borrowings and future debt and equity offerings. There can be no assurance that financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent quarters, the U.S. stock market indexes have experienced significant instability and the available debt financing has tightened. In light of these developments, concerns by investors regarding the stability of the U.S. and international financial systems could result in less favorable commercial financing terms, including higher interest rates or costs and tighter operating covenants, thereby preventing us from obtaining the financing required to conduct all of our planned exploration activities at our Grey Fox, Pike River, and Huizopa properties. The existence of outstanding rights to purchase common shares may impair our share price and our ability to raise capital. Approximately 118.1 million of our common shares are issuable on exercise of warrants, options or other rights to purchase common shares at prices ranging from approximately $0.15 to $2.24 and a weighted average price of $0.35. In addition, there are 8,580,000 common shares issuable upon the conversion of the $4,290,000 outstanding principal amount of convertible debentures due August 23, 2010 held by RAB, which are convertible at the option of the holder at a conversion price of $0.50 per share. During the term of the warrants, options, convertible debentures and other rights, the holders are given an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common shares with a resulting dilution in the interest of the other shareholders. Our ability to obtain additional equity financing during the period such rights are outstanding may be adversely affected, and the existence of the rights may have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. The holders of the warrants, options, convertible debentures and other rights can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than those provided by the outstanding rights. -28- Past and future equity issuances could impair our share price. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common shares, the market price of our common shares could decrease. We have 273,080,927 common shares outstanding as at March 15, 2010. In addition, we may sell additional common shares in subsequent offerings and issue additional common shares to finance future acquisitions or as compensation in financing transactions. On March 9, 2010, Apollo and Linear entered into a binding letter of intent pursuant to which it is expected that (i) the businesses of Apollo and Linear would be combined by way of a court-approved plan of arrangement (the “Arrangement”) pursuant to the provisions of the Canada Business Corporations Act (“CBCA”) and (ii) Linear would subscribe for approximately 62,500,000 Apollo common shares of Apollo at a price of Cdn$0.40 per common share for aggregate proceeds of Cdn$25.0 million (the “Private Placement”). The Private Placement is expected to be completed on or before March 19, 2010. As part of the Arrangement, the Apollo common shares expected to be issued to Linear in the Private Placement will be cancelled without payment upon the completion of the Arrangement. If the proposed business combination is completed, we anticipate that approximately 242,059,314 Apollo common shares would be issued pursuant to the Arrangement and that our current shareholders would hold, in the aggregate, approximately 52.2% of the issued and outstanding shares of the combined company and Linear’s current shareholders would hold, in the aggregate, approximately 47.8% of the combined company (based on the number of Apollo common shares and Linear common shares outstanding as of the date hereof). We cannot predict the size of future issuances of common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales or issuances of large numbers of our common shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. With any additional issuance of common shares, investors will suffer dilution and we may experience dilution in our earnings per share. There is no guarantee that we will be able to collect amounts due under the Calais Promissory Notes. On February 1, 2010, Apollo Gold, Inc., our direct wholly owned subsidiary and the sole shareholder of Montana Tunnels, entered into a purchase agreement pursuant to which it sold all of the outstanding capital stock of Montana Tunnels to Elkhorn in exchange for (i) promissory notes held by Elkhorn and certain investors in Elkhorn or its affiliates from Calais with an outstanding balance of approximately $7,700,000, (ii) Elkhorn’s and the Lenders’ rights with respect to an additional amount of approximately $1,450,000 loaned to Calais, and (iii) a promissory note held by Elkhorn and the Lenders from Calais with an outstanding balance of approximately $380,000. Pursuant to the Elkhorn purchase agreement, we agreed to forebear from enforcing our right to collect principal and interest outstanding under these promissory notes until February 1, 2011. On March 12, 2010, we entered into a purchase agreement with Calais and the Duffy Group pursuant to which we agreed to issue 1,592,733 common shares to the Duffy Group in exchange for the assignment of its rights, title and interest in and to, among other things, a promissory note from Calais with an outstanding balance, including accrued interest thereon, of $653,020. Pursuant to the Duffy Group purchase agreement, we agreed to forebear from enforcing our right to collect principal and interest outstanding under the promissory note until March 12, 2011. -29- Each of the notes described above is past due and there is no guarantee that we will be able to collect the principal and interest outstanding under these promissory notes once the forbearance periods have expired. Additionally, if we decided to pursue a collection of these notes, we may incur significant legal fees in pursuing collection and in enforcing our rights and remedies under the security agreements related thereto, including the costs associated with retaking possession of the collateral property and, if necessary, selling, leasing, transferring or otherwise disposing of such property. Moreover, we have no assurance that Calais will take required actions to preserve the condition and value of the collateral property or that, even if Calais takes all required actions, the value of the property or the proceeds realizable from the sale thereof, will, at the time such remedy is sought or obtained, be sufficient to cover all unpaid amounts due under the promissory notes. Any such delay, additional costs, loss or nonpayment could adversely affect our financial results. The market price of our common shares has experienced volatility and could decline significantly. Our common shares are listed on the NYSE Amex exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. Our share price has declined significantly since 2004, and over the last year the closing price of our common shares has fluctuated from a low of $0.19 per share to a high of $0.59 per share. Securities of small-cap companies have experienced substantial volatility in the past, often based on factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of the companies involved. These factors include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. Our share price is also likely to be significantly affected by global economic issues, as well as short-term changes in gold prices or in our financial condition or liquidity. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common shares at any given point in time might not accurately reflect our long-term value. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management’s attention and resources. We have a history of losses. With the exception of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, during which we had a net income of $1.2 million, we have incurred significant losses. Our net losses were $61.7 million and $13.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2007, respectively. In addition, Black Fox is our only current source of revenue. Further, we have significant obligations under loan agreements related to Black Fox. Although commercial production commenced in late May 2009 at Black Fox, there can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our earnings may be affected by the volatility of gold prices. We historically have derived all of our revenues from the sale of gold, and our development and exploration activities are focused on gold. As a result, our future earnings are directly related to the price of gold. Since the beginning of 2009, the London P.M. or afternoon fix gold spot price, as reported by the Wall Street Journal, has fluctuated from a high of $1,213/oz to a low of $810/oz and was $1,106/oz on March 12, 2010. Changes in the price of gold significantly affect our profitability and the trading price of our common shares. Gold prices historically have fluctuated widely, based on numerous industry factors including: · industrial and jewelry demand; · central bank lending, sales and purchases of gold; · forward sales of gold by producers and speculators; · production and cost levels in major gold-producing regions; and · rapid short-term changes in supply and demand because of speculative or hedging activities. Gold prices are also affected by macroeconomic factors, including: -30- · confidence in the global monetary system; · expectations of the future rate of inflation (if any); · the strength of, and confidence in, the U.S. dollar (the currency in which the price of gold is generally quoted) and other currencies; · interest rates; and · global or regional political or economic events, including but not limited to acts of terrorism. The current demand for, and supply of, gold also affects gold prices. The supply of gold consists of a combination of new production from mining and existing shares of bullion held by government central banks, public and private financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals. As the amounts produced by all producers in any single year constitute a small portion of the total potential supply of gold, normal variations in current production do not usually have a significant impact on the supply of gold or on its price. Mobilization of gold held by central banks through lending and official sales may have a significant adverse impact on the gold price. All of the above factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. If the market prices for gold fall below our costs to produce gold for a sustained period of time, that will make it more difficult to obtain financing for our projects, we will experience additional losses and we could also be required to discontinue exploration, development and/or mining at one or more of our properties. Hedging activities have resulted in significant losses and may continue to result in losses in the future. As a part of the project finance facility, we and the lenders have entered into a hedging program covering both gold sales and part of our Canadian dollar operating costs. Specifically, we have entered into a 250,420 ounce gold forward sales program which is allocated across the four year term of the project facility agreement. As of December 31, 2009, we have settled 50,099 ounces of gold in the program. The weighted average price of the sales program is $876 per ounce of gold. The foreign exchange hedge program is for the Canadian dollar equivalent of $58.0 million, at an exchange rate of Cdn$1.21=US$1.00, over the four year term of the project facility agreement. As of December 31, 2009, we have settled Cdn$8.1 million of the program. In the future, we may enter into hedging contracts that may involve outright forward sales contracts, spot-deferred sales contracts, the use of options which may involve the sale of call options and the purchase of all these hedging instruments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully hedge against price, currency and interest rate fluctuations. Further, there can be no assurance that the use of hedging techniques will always be to our benefit. Some hedging instruments may prevent us from realizing the benefit from subsequent increases in market prices with respect to covered production. This limitation would limit our revenues and profits. Hedging contracts are also subject to the risk that the other party may be unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under these contracts. It is our intention to deliver the quantity of gold required by our forward sales on a going forward basis; however, we may cash settle these forward sale obligations if it is beneficial to us. Any significant nonperformance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. -31- Disruptions in the supply of critical equipment and increases in prices of raw materials could adversely impact our operations. We are a significant consumer of electricity, mining equipment, fuels and mining-related raw materials, all of which we purchase from outside sources. Increases in prices of electricity, equipment, fuel and raw materials could adversely affect our operating expenses and profitability. Furthermore, failure to receive raw materials in a timely manner from third party suppliers could impair our ability to meet production schedules or our contractual commitments and thus adversely impact our revenues. From time to time, we obtain critical mining equipment from outside North America. Factors that can cause delays in the arrival of such equipment include weather, political unrest in countries from which equipment is sourced or through which it is delivered, terrorist attacks or related events in such countries or in the U.S., and work stoppages by suppliers or shippers. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our equipment or other key raw materials, implementing use of replacement equipment or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. We acquired auction rate securities in 2007 with a face value of $1.5 million. The securities were marketed by financial institutions with auction reset dates at 28 day intervals to provide short-term liquidity. All such auction rate securities were rated AAA when purchased, pursuant to our investment policy. Beginning in August 2007, a number of auctions failed and there is no assurance that auctions for the auction rate securities in our investment portfolio, which currently lack liquidity, will succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so as a result of a lack of buying demand. As at December 31, 2009, our auction rate securities held an adjusted cost basis and fair value of $1.0 million based on liquidity impairments to these securities. Uncertainties in the credit and capital markets could lead to further downgrades of our auction rate securities holdings and additional impairments. Furthermore, as a result of auction failures, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure our indebtedness. Substantially all of the Black Fox assets are pledged to secure indebtedness outstanding under the Project Facility. Since these assets represent substantially all of our assets, we will not have access to additional secured lending with other financial institutions, which will require us to raise additional funds through unsecured debt and equity offerings, and covenants in our borrowing agreements limit our ability to incur unsecured indebtedness. Default under our debt obligations would entitle our lenders to foreclose on our assets. Our reserve estimates are potentially inaccurate. We estimate our reserves on our properties as either “proven reserves” or “probable reserves.” Our ore reserve figures and costs are primarily estimates and are not guarantees that we will recover the indicated quantities of these metals. We estimate proven reserve quantities based on sampling and testing of sites conducted by us and by independent companies hired by us. Probable reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are less extensive, and the degree of certainty is less. Reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available geological data and statistical inferences and is inherently imprecise and may prove to be unreliable. Our reserves are reduced as existing reserves are depleted through production. Reserves may be reduced due to lower than anticipated volume and grade of reserves mined and processed and recovery rates. -32- Reserve estimates are calculated using assumptions regarding metals prices. Our reserves at Black Fox were estimated using a gold price of $650/oz. These prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of metals, as well as increased production costs, capital costs and reduced recovery rates, may render reserves uneconomic to exploit, and lead to a reduction in reserves. Any material reduction in our reserves may lead to lower earnings or higher losses, reduced cash flow, asset write-downs and other adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition, including difficulty in obtaining financing and a decrease in our stock price. Reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or future operations. No assurance can be given that the amount of metal estimated will be produced or the indicated level of recovery of these metals will be realized. We may not achieve our production estimates. We prepare estimates of future production for our operations. We develop our estimates based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. In the past, our actual production from time to time has been lower than our production estimates and this may be the case in the future. In particular, our estimate of 2009 gold production was lower than originally predicted as a direct result of encountering lower grade ore than our reserve model predicted. Each of these factors also applies to future development properties not yet in production. In the case of mines we may develop in the future, we do not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates, and there is a greater likelihood that the actual results will vary from the estimates. In addition, development and expansion projects are subject to financing contingencies, unexpected construction and start-up problems and delays. Our future profitability depends in part on actual economic returns and actual costs of developing mines, which may differ significantly from our estimates and involve unexpected problems, costs and delays. We are engaged in the development of new ore bodies. Our ability to sustain or increase our present level of production is dependent in part on the successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. Decisions regarding future projects, including Grey Fox, Pike River, and Huizopa, are subject to the successful completion of feasibility studies, issuance of necessary governmental permits and receipt of adequate financing. Development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. Our estimates of proven and probable ore reserves and cash operating costs are, to a large extent, based upon detailed geologic and engineering analysis. We also conduct feasibility studies that derive estimates of capital and operating costs based upon many factors. It is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our best estimates. It is not unusual in the mining industry for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase and to require more capital than anticipated. There can be no assurance that Black Fox or any future expansion at Black Fox will be profitable. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including adverse environmental effects, technical difficulties due to unusual or unexpected geologic formations, and pit wall failures as well as the associated risks of underground mining. -33- Such risks could result in personal injury, environmental damage, damage to and destruction of production facilities, delays in mining and liability. For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience and industry practice. However, we may not be able to maintain current levels of insurance, particularly if there is a significant increase in the cost of premiums. Insurance against environmental risks is generally too expensive or not available for us and other companies in our industry, and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. To the extent we are subject to environmental liabilities, we would have to pay for these liabilities. Moreover, in the event that we are unable to fully pay for the cost of remediating an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend or significantly curtail operations or enter into other interim compliance measures. Mineral exploration in general, and gold exploration in particular, are speculative and are frequently unsuccessful. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, capital intensive, involves many risks and frequently is nonproductive. There can be no assurance that our mineral exploration efforts will be successful. If we discover a site with gold or other mineralization, it will take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result of these and other uncertainties, no assurance can be given that our exploration programs will result in the expansion or replacement of existing ore reserves that are being depleted by current production. The titles to some of our properties may be uncertain or defective. While we have no reason to believe that our rights to mine on any of our properties are in doubt, title to mining properties are subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. We may lose rights to properties if we fail to meet payment requirements or development or production schedules. We derive the rights to most of our mineral properties from unpatented mining claims, leaseholds, joint ventures or purchase option agreements which require the payment of maintenance fees, rents, purchase price installments, exploration expenditures, or other fees. If we fail to make these payments when they are due, our rights to the property may lapse. There can be no assurance that we will always make payments by the requisite payment dates. In addition, some contracts with respect to our mineral properties require development or production schedules. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet any or all of the development or production schedules. Our ability to transfer or sell our rights to some of our mineral properties requires government approvals or third party consents, which may not be granted. The titles to some of our properties may be uncertain or defective. If there are title defects with respect to any of our properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management's time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Furthermore, if we lose our rights in and to any of our properties, we could incur substantial and protracted losses. -34- We face substantial governmental regulation. Our Black Fox mining operations and our Canadian and Mexican exploration activities are subject to regulations promulgated by various Canadian and Mexican government agencies governing the environment, agricultural zoning, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Currently, our Canadian properties are subject to the jurisdiction of the federal laws of Canada, the provincial laws of Ontario, as well as local laws where they are located. In addition, our Mexican property is subject to Mexican federal laws as well as local laws where it is located. Any changes in current regulations, the adoption of new regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control of and may adversely affect our business. Companies such as ours that engage in exploration and development activities often experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Issuance of permits for our exploration and mining activities is subject to the discretion of government authorities, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain such permits. Permits required for future exploration or development may not be obtainable on reasonable terms or on a timely basis. Existing and possible future laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on us and cause increases in our capital expenditures or require abandonment or delays in the exploration or development of our properties. Moreover, these laws and regulations may allow governmental authorities and private parties to bring lawsuits based upon damages to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of the our past and current operations, or possibly even those actions of parties from whom we acquired its mines or properties, and could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions. It is difficult to strictly comply with all regulations imposed on us. We retain competent and well trained individuals and consultants in jurisdictions in which we do business, however, even with the application of considerable skill we may inadvertently fail to comply with certain laws. Such events can lead to financial restatements, fines, penalties, and other material negative impacts on us. The Canadian mining industry is subject to federal and provincial environmental protection legislation. This legislation imposes strict standards on the mining industry in order to reduce or eliminate the effects of waste generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently emitted into the air or water. Consequently, drilling, refining, extracting and milling are all subject to the restrictions imposed by this legislation. In addition, the construction and commercial operation of a mine typically entail compliance with applicable environmental legislation and review processes, as well as the obtaining of permits, particularly for the use of the land, permits for the use of water, and similar authorizations from various government bodies. Canadian federal, provincial, and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for and development, production and marketing of mineral production, as well as environmental and safety matters have generally become more stringent in recent years, often imposing greater liability on a larger number of potentially responsible parties. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with such requirements. There is no assurance that environmental laws and regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. -35- Our Huizopa exploration project is subject to political and regulatory uncertainty and our ownership of the Huizopa properties is subject to litigation. Our Huizopa exploration project is located in the northern part of the Sierra Madres in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico. There are numerous risks inherent in conducting business in Mexico, including political and economic instability, exposure to currency fluctuations, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in staffing and managing operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, our ability to explore and develop our Huizopa exploration project is subject to maintaining satisfactory relations with the Ejido Huizopa, which is a group of local inhabitants who under Mexican law are granted rights to conduct agricultural activities and control surface access on the property. In 2006, we entered into an agreement with the Ejido Huizopa pursuant to which we agreed to make annual payments to the Ejido Huizopa in exchange for the right to use the land covering our mining concessions for all activities necessary for the exploration, development and production of potential ore deposits. There can be no assurances that the Ejido Huizopa will continue to honor the agreement. If we are unable to successfully manage our operations in Mexico or maintain satisfactory relations with the Ejido Huizopa, our development of the Huizopa property could be hindered or terminated and, as a result, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, on September 4, 2009, Joe Green and companies owned or controlled by him, including a Mexican company named Minas de Coronado, S. de R.L. de C.V., with whom our Mexican subsidiary, Minera Sol de Oro, S.A. de C.V., has a joint venture relationship at the Huizopa exploration project in the State of Sonora, Mexico, filed a complaint against us alleging, among other things, that we breached various agreements and failed to recognize Minas de Coronado’s right joint venture interest in the Huizopa exploration project. Mr. Green is seeking the return of the Huizopa exploration project properties to Mr. Green’s companies. We believe that the claims in the complaint are without merit, and intend to vigorously defend against those claims. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for more information. We are subject to environmental risks. Environmental Liability. We are subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with environmental compliance and the disposal of waste rock and materials that could occur as a result of our mineral exploration and production. In certain circumstances, the potential liabilities can include liability for costs of remediation and clean up of mines which we owned or operated in the past, but no longer own or operate. To the extent that we are subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that we may incur to remedy any non-compliance with environmental laws would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on us. We have not purchased insurance for environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) because it is not generally available at a reasonable price or at all. Environmental Permits. All of our exploration, development and production activities are subject to regulation under one or more of the various state, federal and provincial environmental laws and regulations in Canada and Mexico. Many of the regulations require us to obtain permits for our activities. We must update and review our permits from time to time, and are subject to environmental impact analyses and public review processes prior to approval of the additional activities. It is possible that future changes in applicable laws, regulations and permits or changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could have a significant impact on some portion of our business, causing those activities to be economically reevaluated at that time. Those risks include, but are not limited to, the risk that regulatory authorities may increase bonding requirements beyond our financial capabilities. The posting of bonds in accordance with regulatory determinations is a condition to the right to operate under all material operating permits, and therefore increases in bonding requirements could prevent our operations from continuing even if we were in full compliance with all substantive environmental laws. -36- We face strong competition from other mining companies for the acquisition of new properties. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we may seek to replace and expand our reserves through the acquisition of new properties. In addition, there is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available in the United States, Canada and Mexico and other areas where we would consider conducting exploration and/or production activities. Because we face strong competition for new properties from other mining companies, most of which have greater financial resources than we do, we may be unable to acquire attractive new mining properties. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are currently dependent upon the ability and experience of R. David Russell, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Richard F. Nanna, our Senior Vice President-Exploration; and Melvyn Williams, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President-Finance and Corporate Development. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key officers and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any or all of such officers. We currently do not carry key person insurance on any of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our operations. There may be certain tax risks associated with investments in our company. U.S. persons who are potential holders of our common shares, warrants or options to purchase our common shares, or debentures convertible into our common shares, which we sometimes refer to in this report as equity securities, should be aware that we could constitute a “passive foreign investment company” (or a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The tests for determining PFIC status for a taxable year depend upon the relative values of certain categories of assets and the relative amounts of certain kinds of income. The application of these factors depends upon our financial results for the year, which is beyond our ability to predict or control, and may be subject to legal and factual uncertainties. While we do not believe that we were a PFIC in 2009 and do not expect to be a PFIC in 2010, we cannot guarantee that we were not a PFIC in 2009 and we are unable to predict whether we will be a PFIC in 2010 or in later years. We undertake no obligation to advise investors as to our PFIC status for any year. If we are a PFIC for any year, any holder of our equity securities who is a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which we sometimes refer to in this report as a U.S. holder, and whose holding period for the equity securities includes any portion of a year in which we are a PFIC generally would be subject to a special adverse tax regime in respect of “excess distributions.” Excess distributions would include certain distributions received with respect to our common shares. Gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a sale or other transfer of our equity securities also would be treated as an excess distribution. Under the PFIC rules, excess distributions would be allocated ratably to a U.S. holder’s holding period. For this purpose, the holding period of common shares acquired through either an exercise of warrants or options or a conversion of debentures includes the holder’s holding period in those warrants, options, or convertible debentures. The portion of any excess distributions (including gains treated as excess distributions) allocated to the current year would be includible as ordinary income in the current year. In contrast, the portion of any excess distributions allocated to prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal rate applicable to ordinary income for each year (regardless of the taxpayer’s actual marginal rate for that year and without reduction by any losses or loss carryforwards) and would be subject to interest charges to reflect the value of the U.S. federal income tax deferral. -37- Elections may be available to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs (the so-called “QEF” and “mark-to-market” elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income. The QEF and mark-to-market elections are not available to U.S. holders with respect to warrants, options, or convertible debentures. We have not decided whether we will provide the U.S. Holders of our common shares with the annual information required to make a QEF election. Additional special adverse rules could apply to our equity securities if we are a PFIC and have a non-U.S. subsidiary that is also a PFIC. Finally, special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our equity securities if we are a PFIC. You could have difficulty or be unable to enforce certain civil liabilities on us, certain of our directors and our experts. We are a Yukon Territory, Canada, corporation. While our chief executive officer is located in the United States, many of our assets are located outside of the United States. Additionally, a number of our directors are residents of Canada. It might not be possible for investors in the United States to collect judgments obtained in United States courts predicated on the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities legislation. It could also be difficult for you to effect service of process in connection with any action brought in the United States upon such directors and experts. Execution by United States courts of any judgment obtained against us, or any of the directors, executive officers or experts identified in this report or documents incorporated by reference herein, in United States courts would be limited to the assets, or the assets of such persons or corporations, as the case might be, in the United States. The enforceability in Canada of United States judgments or liabilities in original actions in Canadian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States is doubtful. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 