Risk factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report. Our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks, or by other risks that we presently cannot identify. The pace and scope of our business transformation initiatives increase the execution risk that benefits may not be fully realized, that related costs may increase or that our business as usual activities do not perform in line with expectations. In parallel with the business transformation as we respond to the digital revolution and shift from a product to a services business, we will continue to look at opportunities to develop new business models and further refine organization structures. The pace and scope of change increases the risk that not all of these changes will deliver the expected benefits within anticipated timeframes, or that the costs of these changes may increase. In addition, as a result of the increased pressure of transformational change, our business as usual activities may not perform in line with plans or our levels of customer service may not meet expectations. Global economic conditions may adversely impact our financial performance. With the continued pressure and uncertainty in the worldwide economies, there remains a risk of a weakening in trading conditions, which could adversely impact our future financial performance. The effect of continued deterioration or lack of recovery in the global economy will vary across our different businesses and will depend on the depth, length and severity of any economic downturn. Specific economic risks by business are described more fully in the other risk factors below. A significant deterioration in Group profitability and/or cash flow caused by prolonged economic instability could reduce our liquidity and/or impair our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise additional funds from the capital markets and/or renegotiate our banking covenants. To the extent the economic difficulties continue, or worldwide economic conditions materially deteriorate, the Group’s revenues, profitability and cash flows could be significantly reduced as customers would be unable to purchase products and services in the expected quantities and/or pay for them within normal agreed terms. A liquidity shortfall may delay certain development initiatives or may expose the Group to a need to negotiate further funding. While we anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with availability under our existing credit facility, cash balances and cash from operations, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional capital to fund operations in the future or to finance acquisitions. If we seek to raise additional capital in order to meet various objectives, including developing future technologies and services, increasing working capital, acquiring businesses and responding to competitive pressures, capital may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all. Our access to capital is influenced by, among other factors, the ratings assigned to our debt by the credit rating agencies. Our long-term ratings are rated Baa1 by Moody’s and BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, and the short-term ratings are P2 and A2 respectively. In January 2014, Moody’s lowered the outlook, for both their ratings, from “stable” to “negative”. If the global economy weakens further and/or the global financial markets collapse, we may not have access to or could lose our bank deposits. Lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or debt securities with an equity component would dilute our stock ownership. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or development of new products, services and technologies. 8 Table of Contents Our business will be impacted by the rate of and state of technological change, including the digital revolution and other disruptive technologies. A common trend facing all our businesses is the digitization of content and proliferation of distribution channels, either over the internet, or via other electronic means, replacing traditional print formats. The digital migration brings the need for change in product and content distribution, consumers’ perception of value and the publisher’s position between retailers and authors. We face competitive threats both from large media players and from smaller businesses, online and mobile portals and operators in the digital arena that provide alternative sources of content, news and information. New distribution channels, e.g. digital format, the internet, online retailers, growing delivery platforms (e.g., e-readers or tablets), pose both threats and opportunities to our traditional publishing business models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. If we do not adapt rapidly to these changes we may lose business to ‘faster’ more ‘agile’ competitors, who increasingly are non-traditional competitors, making their identification all the more difficult. We may be required to invest significant resources to further adapt to the changing competitive environment. Our US and UK educational solutions and assessment businesses may be adversely affected by changes in government funding resulting from either general economic conditions, changes in government educational funding, programs, policy decisions, legislation and/or changes in the procurement processes. The results and growth of our US educational solutions and assessment businesses are dependent on the level of federal and state educational funding, which in turn is dependent on the robustness of state finances and the level of funding allocated to educational programs. State, local and municipal finances have been adversely affected by the US recession. Although there are signs of recovery, including increasing US state tax receipts, education funding pressures remain. Competition from low price and disruptive new business models continues and open source is promoted as a way for to keep costs down for our customers. The current challenging environment could impact our ability to collect on education-related debt. Government changes and decisions can also affect the funding available for educational expenditure, which include the impact of education reform. Similarly, changes in the government procurement process for textbooks, learning material and student tests, and vocational training programs can also affect our markets. Changes in curricula, delays in the timing of the adoptions and changes in the student testing process can all affect these programs and therefore the size of our market in any given year. For our UK examination and assessment businesses, changes in UK Government policy could have a significant impact on our present business. There are multiple competing demands for educational funds and there is no guarantee that new textbooks or testing or training programs will be funded, or that we will win this business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights our competitive position and results may be adversely affected and limit our ability to grow. Our products and services largely comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including newspapers, books, the internet and other growing delivery platforms. We rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products and services. Our intellectual property rights in countries such as the US and the UK, jurisdictions covering the largest proportion of our operations, are well established. However, we also conduct business in other countries where the extent of effective legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain, and this uncertainty could affect our future growth. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us; our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be 9 Table of Contents intense or where legal protection may be weak; any of the intellectual property rights that we may employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or abandoned; or that we will not lose the ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others. Moreover, despite trademark and copyright protection, third parties may copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our proprietary rights without our authorization. The loss or diminution in value of these proprietary rights or our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. A control breakdown or service failure in our school assessment and qualification businesses could result in financial loss and reputational damage. There are inherent risks associated with our school assessment and qualification businesses, both in the US and the UK. A service failure caused by a breakdown in our testing and assessment processes could lead to a mis-grading of student tests and/or late delivery of test results to students and their schools. In either event we may be subject to legal claims, penalty charges under our contracts, non-renewal of contracts and/or the suspension or withdrawal of our accreditation to conduct tests. It is also possible that such events would result in adverse publicity, which may affect our ability to retain existing contracts and/or obtain new customers. Our professional services and school assessment businesses involve complex contractual relationships with both government agencies and commercial customers for the provision of various testing services. Our financial results, growth prospects and/or reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts and relationships are poorly managed or face increased competitive pressures. Our services and assessment businesses are characterized by contracts spread over several years. As in any contracting business, there are inherent risks associated with the bidding process, start-up, operational performance and contract compliance (including penalty clauses) which could adversely affect our financial performance and/or reputation. Failure to retain these contracts at the end of the contract term could adversely impact our future revenue growth. Our investment into inherently riskier emerging markets is growing and the returns may be lower than anticipated. To take advantage of international growth opportunities and to reduce our reliance on our US and UK markets we are increasing our investments in a number of emerging markets, some of which are inherently more risky than our traditional markets. Political, regulatory, economic and legal systems in emerging markets may be less predictable than in countries with more developed institutional structures. Political, regulatory, economic, currency, reputational and corporate governance and compliance risks (including fraud, bribery and corruption) as well as unmanaged expansion are all factors which could limit our returns on investments made in these markets. Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, synergies and/or cost savings from acquisitions, mergers and other business combinations, could lead to goodwill and intangible asset impairments. We continually acquire and dispose of businesses to achieve our strategic objectives. In early 2014 we acquired Grupo Multi, a provider of private language schools in Brazil. Acquired goodwill and intangible assets could be impaired if we are unable to generate the anticipated revenue growth, synergies and/or cost savings associated with these or other acquisitions. In July 2013, Pearson and Bertelsmann completed the combination of their respective consumer publishing businesses to create Penguin Random House, in which we hold a 47% equity interest. Although Penguin Random House is the world’s leading consumer publishing company, our investment and associated return are subject to the continuing success of this venture, in a competitive global market. 10 Table of Contents We operate in markets that are dependent on Information Technology (IT) systems and technological change. All our businesses, to a greater or lesser extent, are dependent on information technology. We either provide software and/or internet services to our customers or we use complex IT systems and products to support our business activities, including customer-facing systems, back-office processing and infrastructure. We face several technological risks associated with software product development and service delivery, information technology security (including virus and cyber-attacks), e-commerce, enterprise resource planning system implementations and upgrades. Although plans and procedures are in place to reduce such risks, from time to time we have experienced verifiable attacks on our systems by unauthorized parties. To date such attacks have not resulted in any material damage to us, but our businesses could be adversely affected if our systems and infrastructure experience a significant failure or interruption. Failure to comply with data privacy regulations and standards or weakness in information security, including a failure to prevent or detect a malicious attack on our systems, could result in a major data privacy breach causing reputational damage to our brands and financial loss. Across our businesses we hold large volumes of personal data including that of employees, customers, students and citizens. Despite our implementation of security measures, individuals may try to gain unauthorized access to our data in order to misappropriate such information for potentially fraudulent purposes. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information, whether through breach of our network by an unauthorized party, employee theft, misuse or error or otherwise, could harm our reputation, impair our ability to attract and retain our customers, or subject us to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by individuals, and thereby harm our business and operating results. Failure to adequately protect personal data could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs, reputational damage, potential cancellation of some existing contracts and inability to compete for future business. In addition, we could incur significant costs in complying with the relevant laws and regulations regarding the unauthorized disclosure of personal information. Our reported earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in our pension costs and funding requirements. We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, the principal ones being in the UK and the US. The major plans are self-administered with the plans’ assets held independently of the Group. Regular valuations, conducted by independent qualified actuaries, are used to determine pension costs and funding requirements. As these assets are invested in the capital markets, which are often volatile, the plans may require additional funding from us, which could have an adverse impact on our results. It is our policy to ensure that each pension plan is adequately funded, over time, to meet its ongoing and future liabilities. Our earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by the need to provide additional funding to eliminate pension fund deficits in our defined benefit plans. Our greatest exposure relates to our UK defined benefit pension plan, which is valued once every three years. Pension fund deficits may arise because of inadequate investment returns, increased member life expectancy, changes in actuarial assumptions and changes in pension regulations, including accounting rules and minimum funding requirements. Operational disruption to our business caused by our third party providers, a major disaster and/or external threats could restrict our ability to supply products and services to our customers. Across all our businesses, we manage complex operational and logistical arrangements including distribution centers, data centers, and educational and office facilities, as well as relationships with third party print sites. We have also outsourced some support functions, including information technology and warehousing, to third party providers. The failure of third parties to whom we have outsourced business functions could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition. Failure to recover from a major disaster, (e.g. fire, flood etc.) at a key facility or the disruption of supply from a key third party vendor or partner (e.g. due to bankruptcy) could restrict our ability to service our customers. Similarly external threats, such as a flu pandemic, terrorist attacks, strikes, weather etc., could all affect our business and employees, disrupting our daily business activities. 11 Table of Contents Changes in students’ buying and distribution behavior put downward pressure on price. Students are seeking cheaper sources of content, e.g. online discounters, file sharing, use of pirated copies, and rentals, along with open source. This change in behavior puts downward pressure on textbook prices in our major markets, and this could adversely impact our results. Changes in tax law or perceptions on tax planning strategies may lead to higher effective tax rate or negative reputational impact. Changes in corporate tax rates and/or other relevant tax laws in the UK, US or other jurisdictions could have a material impact on our future reported tax rate and/or our future tax payments. We have been subject to audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax provision is reasonable, the final determination of our tax liability could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions, which could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our tax strategy reflects our business strategy and the locations and financing needs of our operations. In common with many companies, we seek to manage our tax affairs to protect value for our shareholders, in line with our broader fiduciary duties. We are committed to complying with all statutory obligations, to undertake full disclosure to tax authorities and to follow agreed policies and procedures with regard to tax planning and strategy. We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet. As with any international business our earnings can be materially affected by exchange rate movements. We are particularly exposed to movements in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate as approximately 60% of our total revenue is generated in US dollars. In addition, we are increasingly exposed to a range of international currencies. Sales for 2014, translated at 2013 average rates, would have been £272m or 6% higher. The inherent volatility of advertising could adversely affect the profitability of our news business. Advertising revenue is susceptible to fluctuations in economic cycles. Certain of our products, such as the Financial Times, are more advertising-driven than our other products. Consequently, these products are more affected by decreases in advertising revenue. As the internet continues to grow as a global medium for information, communication and commerce, advertisers are increasingly shifting advertising dollars from print to online media. Any downturn in corporate and financial advertising spend due to the economic slowdown will negatively impact the results. If we fail to attract, retain and develop appropriately skilled employees, our business may be harmed. Our success depends on the skill, experience and dedication of our employees. If we are unable to attract, retain and develop sufficiently experienced and capable personnel, especially in technology, product development, sales and management, our business and financial results may suffer. When talented employees leave, we may have difficulty replacing them, and our business may suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and attract the personnel that we need. Social, environmental and ethical risks may also adversely impact our business. We consider social, environmental and ethical (SEE) risks no differently to the way we manage any other business risk. These include journalistic/author integrity, ethical business behavior, intellectual copyright protection, compliance with UN Global Compact standards, environmental impact, people and data privacy. 12 Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect employees and learners could have negative financial, legal and reputational impacts. We take very seriously the health, safety, well-being and protection of our employees, learners and customers and implement appropriate policies, standards and procedures. However, there may be accidents or incidents that occur, causing injury or harm to individuals. This may include our direct delivery businesses where we are operating, either ourselves or in partnership, schools, colleges, universities, testing and assessment centers. Our business depends on a strong brand, and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or expand our business. We have developed a strong brand that we believe has contributed significantly to the success of our business. Maintaining, protecting and enhancing the Pearson brand is critical to expanding our business and will depend largely on our ability to maintain our customers’ trust in our solutions and in the quality and integrity of our products and services. If we do not successfully maintain a strong brand, our business could be harmed. 