Risk factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report. Our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks, or by other risks that we presently cannot identify. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequately protected under current laws in some jurisdictions and that may adversely affect our results and our ability to grow. Our products largely comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including newspapers, books and the internet. We rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products. We cannot be sure that our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our intellectual property rights in countries such as the US and UK, jurisdictions covering the largest proportion of our operations, are well established. However, we also conduct business in other countries where the extent of effective legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain, and this uncertainty could affect our future growth. Moreover, despite trademark and copyright protection, third parties may copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our proprietary rights without our authorization. These unauthorized activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet. The lack of internet-specific legislation relating to trademark and copyright protection creates an additional challenge for us in protecting our proprietary rights relating to our online business processes and other digital technology rights. The loss or diminution in value of these proprietary rights or our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. In that regard, Penguin Group (USA) Inc. and Pearson Education have joined three other major US publishers in a suit brought under the auspices of the Association of American Publishers to challenge Google’s plans to copy the full text of all books ever published without permission from the publishers or authors. This lawsuit seeks to demarcate the extent to which search engines, other internet operators and libraries may rely on the fair-use doctrine to copy content without authorization from the copyright proprietors, and may give publishers and authors more control over online users of their intellectual property. If the lawsuit is unsuccessful, publishers and authors may be unable to control copying of their content for purposes of online searching, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. 8 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. Our education, business information and book publishing businesses all operate in highly competitive markets, which are constantly changing in response to competition, technological innovations and other factors. A common trend facing all our businesses is the digitization of content and proliferation of distribution channels, either over the internet, or via other electronic means, replacing traditional print formats. If we do not adapt rapidly to these changes we may lose business to ‘faster’ more ‘agile’ competitors, who increasingly are nontraditional competitors, making their identification all the more difficult. Illustrations of the competitive threats we face at present include: — Students seeking cheaper sources of content, e.g. online, used books or re-imported textbooks. — Competition from major publishers and other educational material and service providers, including not for profit organizations, in our US educational textbook and assessment businesses. — Penguin: authors’ advances in consumer publishing. We compete with other publishing businesses to purchase the rights to author manuscripts. Our competitors may bid to a level at which we could not generate a sufficient return on our investment, and so, typically, we would not purchase these rights. — FT: we face competitive threats both from large media players and from smaller businesses, online portals and news redistributors operating in the digital arena and providing alternative sources of news and information. — People: the investments we make in our employees, combined with our employment policies and practices, we believe are critical factors enabling us to recruit and retain the very best people in our business sectors. Our US educational textbook and assessment businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding resulting from either general economic conditions, changes in government educational funding, programs and legislation (both at the federal and state level), and/or changes in the state procurement process. The results and growth of our US educational textbook and assessment business is dependent on the level of federal and state educational funding, which in turn is dependent on the robustness of state finances and the level of funding allocated to educational programs. State finances could be adversely affected by a US recession and/or fallout from the sub-prime mortgage crisis reducing property values and hence state property tax receipts. Federal and/or state legislative changes can also affect the funding available for educational expenditure, e.g. the No Child Left Behind Act. Similarly changes in the state procurement process for textbooks, learning material and student tests, particularly in the adoptions market can also affect our markets. For example, changes in curricula, delays in the timing of the adoptions and changes in the student testing process can all affect these programs and therefore the size of our market in any given year. There are multiple competing demands for educational funds and there is no guarantee that states will fund new textbooks or testing programs, or that we will win this business. Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, synergies and/or costs savings from recent acquisitions could lead to goodwill and intangible asset impairments. We continually acquire and dispose of businesses to achieve our strategic objectives. We recently completed two relatively large acquisitions, i.e. the Harcourt Assessment and Harcourt Education International business for $950m and the acquisition of eCollege for $491m. If we are unable to generate the anticipated revenue growth, synergies and/or cost savings associated with these acquisitions there is a risk the goodwill and intangible assets acquired (estimated at £430m) could be impaired in future years. 9 Table of Contents Our newspaper businesses may be adversely affected by reductions in advertising revenues and/or circulation either because of competing news information distribution channels, particularly online and digital formats, or due to weak general economic conditions. Changes in consumer purchasing habits, as readers look to alternative sources and/or providers of information, such as the internet and other digital formats, may change the way we distribute our content. We might see a decline in print circulation in our more mature markets as readership habits change and readers migrate online, although we see further opportunities for growth in our less mature markets outside Europe. If the migration of readers to new digital formats occurs more quickly than we expect, this is likely to affect print advertising spend by our customers, adversely affecting our profitability. Our newspaper businesses are operationally highly geared and still rely significantly on print advertising revenue despite moves to other business models; relatively small changes in revenue, positive or negative, have a disproportionate effect on profitability; therefore any downturn in corporate and financial advertising spend would negatively impact our results. A control breakdown in our school assessment businesses could result in financial loss and reputational damage. There are inherent risks associated with our school assessment businesses, both in the USA and the UK. A breakdown in our testing and assessment products and processes could lead to a mis-grading of student tests and/or late delivery of test results to students and their schools. In either event we may be subject to legal claims, penalty charges under our contracts, non-renewal of contracts and/or the suspension or withdrawal of our accreditation to conduct tests. It is also possible that such events would result in adverse publicity, which may affect our ability to retain existing contracts and/or obtain new customers. Our professional services and school assessment businesses involve complex contractual relationships with both government agencies and commercial customers for the provision of various testing services. Our financial results, growth prospects and/or reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts and relationships are not managed. These businesses are characterized by multi-million pound sterling contracts spread over several years. As in any contracting business, there are inherent risks associated with the bidding process, start-up, operational performance and contract compliance (including penalty clauses) which could adversely affect our financial performance and/or reputation. Failure to retain these contracts at the end of the contract term could adversely impact our future revenue growth. At Edexcel, our UK Examination board and testing business, any change in UK Government policy to examination marking — for example, introduction of new qualifications — could have a significant impact on our present business model. At Penguin, changes in product distribution channels, increased book returns and/or customer bankruptcy may restrict our ability to grow and affect our profitability. New distribution channels, e.g. digital format, the internet, used books, combined with the concentration of retailer power pose multiple threats (and opportunities) to our traditional consumer publishing models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. Penguin’s financial performance can also be negatively affected if book return rates increase above historical average levels. Similarly, the bankruptcy of a major retail customer would disrupt short-term product supply to the market as well as result in a large debt write off. 10 Table of Contents We operate in markets which are dependent on Information Technology (IT) systems and technological change. All our businesses, to a greater or lesser extent, are dependent on information technology. We either provide software and/or internet services to our customers or we use complex IT systems and products to support our business activities, particularly in business information publishing, back-office processing and infrastructure. We face several technological risks associated with software product development and service delivery in our educational businesses, information technology security (including virus and hacker attacks), e-commerce, enterprise resource planning system implementations and upgrades. The failure to recruit and retain staff with relevant skills may constrain our ability to grow as we combine traditional publishing products with online and service offerings. Operational disruption to our business caused by a major disaster and/or external threats could restrict our ability to supply products and services to our customers. Across all our businesses, we manage complex operational and logistical arrangements including distribution centers, data centers and large office facilities as well as relationships with third party print sites. Failure to recover from a major disaster, e.g. fire, flood etc, at a key facility or the disruption of supply from a key third party vendor could restrict our ability to service our customers. Similarly external threats, such as a pandemic, terrorist attacks, strikes etc, could all affect our business and employees, disrupting our daily business activities. A major data privacy breach may cause reputational damage to our brands and financial loss. Across our businesses we hold increasingly large volumes of personal data including that of employees, customers and, in our assessment businesses, students and citizens. Failure to adequately protect personal data could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs, reputational damage, potential cancellation of some existing contracts and inability to compete for future business. Investment returns outside our traditional core US and UK markets may be lower than anticipated. To minimize dependence on our core markets, particularly the US, we are seeking growth opportunities outside these markets, building on our existing substantial international presence. Certain markets we may target for growth are inherently more risky than our traditional markets. Political, economic, currency and corporate governance risks (including fraud) as well as unmanaged expansion are all factors which could limit our returns on investments made in these markets. Our reported earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in our pension costs and funding requirements. We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, the principal ones being in the UK and US. The major plans are self-administered with the plans’ assets held independently of the Group. Regular valuations, conducted by independent qualified actuaries, are used to determine pension costs and funding requirements. It is our policy to ensure that each pension plan is adequately funded, over time, to meet its ongoing and future liabilities. Our earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by the need to provide additional funding to eliminate pension fund deficits in our defined benefit plans. Our greatest exposure relates to our UK defined benefit pension plan. Pension fund deficits may arise because of inadequate investment returns, increased member life expectancy, changes in actuarial assumptions and changes in pension regulations, including accounting rules and minimum funding requirements. The latest valuation of our UK defined benefit pension plan has been completed and future funding arrangements have been agreed between the Company and the pension fund trustee. Additional payments amounting to £100m were made by the Company in 2007. We review these arrangements every three years. 11 Table of Contents We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in foreign currencies particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet. As with any international business our earnings can be materially affected by exchange rate movements. We are particularly exposed to movements in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate as approximately 60% of our revenue is generated in US dollars. Sales for 2007, translated at 2006 average rates, would have been £223m or 6% higher. This is predominantly a currency translation risk (i.e. non-cash flow item), and not a trading risk (i.e. cash flow item) as our currency trading flows are relatively limited. Pearson generates about 60% of its sales in the US and each 5¢ change in the average £:$ exchange rate for the full year (which in 2007 was £1:$2.00) would have an impact of 1p on adjusted earnings per share and affect shareholders’ funds by approximately £55m. Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our reported earnings and cash flows. Changes in corporate tax rates and/or other relevant tax laws in the UK and/or the US could have a material impact on our future reported tax rate and/or our future tax payments. 