Risk factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report. Our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks, or by other risks that we presently cannot identify. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequately protected under current laws in some jurisdictions and that may adversely affect our results and our ability to grow. Our products largely comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including newspapers, books and the internet. We rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products. We cannot be sure that our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our intellectual property rights in countries such as the US and UK, jurisdictions covering the largest proportion of 9 Table of Contents our operations, are well established. However, we also conduct business in other countries where the extent of effective legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain, and this uncertainty could affect our future growth. Moreover, despite trademark and copyright protection, third parties may copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our proprietary rights without our authorization. These unauthorized activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet. The lack of internet-specific legislation relating to trademark and copyright protection creates an additional challenge for us in protecting our proprietary rights relating to our online business processes and other digital technology rights. The loss or diminution in value of these proprietary rights or our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. In that regard, Penguin Group (USA) Inc. and Pearson Education have joined three other major US publishers in a suit brought under the auspices of the Association of American Publishers to challenge Google’s plans to copy the full text of all books ever published without permission from the publishers or authors. This lawsuit seeks to demarcate the extent to which search engines, other internet operators and libraries may rely on the fair-use doctrine to copy content without authorization from the copyright proprietors, and may give publishers and authors more control over online users of their intellectual property. If the lawsuit is unsuccessful, publishers and authors may be unable to control copying of their content for purposes of online searching, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. Our US educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding resulting from either general economic conditions, changes in government educational funding, programs and legislation (both at the federal and state level), and/or changes in the state procurement process. The results and growth of our US educational textbook and testing business is dependent on the level of US and state educational funding, which in turn is dependent on the robustness of state finances and the level of funding allocated to educational programs. Federal and/or state legislative changes can also affect the funding available for educational expenditure, e.g. the No Child Left Behind Act. Similarly changes in the state procurement process for textbooks, learning material and student tests, particularly in the adoptions market can also affect our markets. For example, changes in curricula, delays in the timing of the adoptions and changes in the student testing process can all affect these programs and therefore the size of our market in any given year. There are multiple competing demands for educational funds and there is no guarantee that states will fund new textbooks or testing programs, or that we will win this business. Our newspaper businesses may be adversely affected by reductions in advertising revenues and/or circulation either because of competing news information distribution channels, particularly online and digital formats, or due to weak general economic conditions. Changes in consumer purchasing habits, as readers look to alternative sources and/or providers of information, such as the internet and other digital formats, may change the way we distribute our content. We might see a decline in print circulation in our more mature markets as readership habits change and readers migrate online, although we see further opportunities for growth in our less mature markets outside Europe. If the migration of readers to new digital formats occurs more quickly than we expect, this is likely to affect print advertising spend by our customers, adversely affecting our profitability. Our newspaper businesses are highly geared and remain dependent on advertising revenue; relatively small changes in revenue, positive or negative, have a disproportionate effect on profitability. We are beginning to see an increase in advertising revenues compared to prior years, however any downturn in corporate and financial advertising spend would negatively impact our results. 10 Table of Contents A control breakdown in our school testing businesses could result in financial loss and reputational damage. There are inherent risks associated with our school testing businesses, both in the USA and the UK. A breakdown in our testing and assessment products and processes could lead to a mis-grading of student tests and/or late delivery of test results to students and their schools. In either event we may be subject to legal claims, penalty charges under our contracts, non-renewal of contracts and/or in the case of our UK testing business, the suspension or withdrawal of our accreditation to conduct tests. It is also possible that such events would result in adverse publicity, which may affect our ability to retain existing contracts and/or obtain new customers. Our professional services and school testing businesses involve complex contractual relationships with both government agencies and commercial customers for the provision of various testing services. Our financial results, growth prospects and/or reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts and relationships are not managed. These businesses are characterized by multi-million pound contracts spread over several years. As in any contracting business, there are inherent risks associated with the bidding process, start-up, operational performance and contract compliance (including penalty clauses) which could adversely affect our financial performance and/or reputation. Several of these businesses are dependent on either single or a small number of large contracts. Failure to retain these contracts at the end of the contract term would adversely impact our future revenue growth. At Edexcel, our UK Examination board and testing business, any change in UK Government policy to exam marking and student testing could have a significant impact on our present business model. We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. Our education, business information and book publishing businesses operate in highly competitive markets. These markets constantly change in response to competition, technological innovations and other factors. To remain competitive we continue to invest in our authors, products, services and people. There is no guarantee that these investments will generate the anticipated returns or protect us from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources and our ability to develop and exploit opportunities. Specific competitive threats we face at present include: • Students seeking cheaper sources of content, e.g. on-line, used books or re-imported textbooks. • Competition from major publishers and other educational material and service providers in our US educational textbook and testing businesses. • Penguin — Authors’ advances in consumer publishing. We compete with other publishing businesses to purchase the rights to author manuscripts. Our competitors may bid to a level at which we could not generate a sufficient return on our investment, and so, typically, we would not purchase these rights. • People — the investments we make in our employees, combined with our employment policies and practices, we believe are critical factors enabling us to recruit and retain the very best people in our business sectors. However, some of our markets are presently undergoing radical restructuring with several of our competitors up for sale, particularly in the Education sector. New owners, particularly private equity, may try to recruit our key talent as part of this industry restructuring. At Penguin, changes in product distribution channels, increased book returns and/or customer bankruptcy may restrict our ability to grow and affect our profitability. New distribution channels, e.g. digital format, the internet, used books, combined with the concentration of retailer power pose multiple threats (and opportunities) to our traditional consumer publishing models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. 11 Table of Contents Penguin’s financial performance can also be negatively affected if book return rates increase above historical average levels. Similarly, the bankruptcy of a major retail customer would disrupt short-term product supply to the market as well as result in a large debt write off. We operate in markets which are dependent on Information Technology systems and technological change. All our businesses, to a greater or lesser extent, are dependent on technology. We either provide software and/or internet services to our customers or we use complex information technology systems and products to support our business activities, particularly in business information publishing, back-office processing and infrastructure. We face several technological risks associated with software product development and service delivery in our educational businesses, information technology security (including virus and hacker attacks), e-commerce, enterprise resource planning system implementations and upgrades. The failure to recruit and retain staff with relevant skills may constrain our ability to grow as we combine traditional publishing products with online and service offerings. Operational disruption to our business caused by a major disaster and/or external threat such as Avian Flu, restricting our ability to supply products and services to our customers. Across all our businesses we manage complex operational and logistical arrangements including distribution centers, third-party print sites, data centers and large office facilities. Failure to recover from a major disaster, e.g. fire, flood etc, at a key facility or the disruption of supply from a key third-party vendor could restrict our ability to service our customers. Similarly external threats, such as Avian Flu, terrorist attacks, strikes etc, could all affect our business and employees, disrupting our daily business activities. We have developed business continuity arrangements, including IT disaster recovery plans, to minimize any business disruption in the event of a major disaster. However, despite regular updates and testing of these plans there is no guarantee that our financial performance will not be adversely affected in the event of a major disaster and/or external threat to our business. Insurance coverage may minimize any losses in certain circumstances. Investment returns outside our traditional core US and UK markets may be lower than anticipated. To minimize dependence on our core markets, particularly the US, we are seeking growth opportunities outside these markets, building on our existing substantial international presence. Certain markets we may target for growth are inherently more risky than our traditional markets. Political, economic, currency and corporate governance risks (including fraud) as well as unmanaged expansion are all factors which could limit our returns on investments made in these non-traditional markets. Our reported earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in our pension costs and funding requirements. We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, the principal ones being in the UK and US. The major plans are self-administered with the plans’ assets held independently of the Group. Regular valuations, conducted by independent qualified actuaries, are used to determine pension costs and funding requirements. It is our policy to ensure that each pension plan is adequately funded, over time, to meet its ongoing and future liabilities. Our earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by the need to provide additional funding to eliminate pension fund deficits in our defined benefit plans. Our greatest exposure relates to our UK defined benefit pension plan. Pension fund deficits have/may arise because of inadequate investment returns, increased member life expectancy, changes in actuarial assumptions and changes in pension regulations, including accounting rules and minimum funding requirements. The latest valuation of our UK defined benefit pension plan has been completed and future funding arrangements have been agreed between the Company and the pension fund Trustee. Additional payments 12 Table of Contents amounting to £100m will be made by the Company in 2007. We review these arrangements every three years and are confident that the pension funding plans are sufficient to meet future liabilities without unduly affecting the development of the Company. Social, environmental and ethical risk We consider social, environmental and ethical (SEE) risks no differently to the way we manage any other business risk. Our 2006 risk assessments did not identify any significant under-managed SEE risks, nor have any of our most important SEE risks, many concerned with reputational risk, changed year on year. These are: • Journalistic/author integrity; • Ethical business behavior; • Compliance with UN Global Compact principles on labor standards, human rights, environment and anti-corruption; • Environmental impact; • People; • Data privacy. Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our reported earnings and cash flows. There are several factors which may affect our reported tax rate and/or level of tax payments in the future. The most important are as follows: • Changes in corporate tax rates and/or other relevant tax laws in the UK and/or the US could have a material impact on our future reported tax rate and/or our future tax payments. • A material shortfall in profits of our US businesses below the level projected in our strategic plans would require us to reconsider the amount of the deferred tax asset relating to US new operating losses in our balance sheet (£126m at December 31, 2006). This could lead to a material increase in the reported tax rate. We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet. As with any international business, our earnings can be materially affected by exchange rate movements. We are particularly exposed to movements in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate as approximately 65% of our revenue is generated in US dollars. We estimate that if 2005 average rates had prevailed in 2006, sales for 2006 would have been £44m or 1% higher. This is predominantly a currency translation risk (i.e. non-cash flow item), and not a trading risk (i.e. cash flow item), as our currency trading flows are relatively limited. Pearson generates about two-thirds of its sales in the US and each five cent change in the average £:$ exchange rate for the full year (which in 2006 was £1:$1.84 and in 2005 was £1:$1.81) would have an impact of 1p on earnings per share. We estimate that a five cent change in the closing exchange rate between the US dollar and sterling in any year could affect our shareholders’ funds by approximately £85m. 