ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a summary of certain risks and uncertainties identified by us in the conduct of our business and is not meant to be exhaustive. These Risk Factors should also be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements that we make in this Annual Report as well as other risks and uncertainties identified from time to time in our other SEC reports, registrations statements and public announcements. See also “‘Safe Harbor’ Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” at the beginning of this Annual Report. Our market continues to be highly competitive. Our market continues to be highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify as new companies enter the asset performance management market and existing ones expand their product lines. Certain competitors, including enterprise resource planning, or ERP, companies such as Oracle and SAP, currently have greater financial, marketing, technical, and service and support resources than we do. In addition, many prospective customers have already made significant commitments to ERP competitors, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to succeed in our market. To the extent such competitors increase their focus on asset management or maintenance, repair and operations procurement, we could be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, slowing U.S. and world economies could result in a decrease in spending by corporations on information technology and software. This could lead to even greater competition in our markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors, especially if customers or prospective customers decrease their level of spending on asset performance management products in a slowing economy. If we fail to compete successfully, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes and demands in our markets, we will not remain competitive. Our business is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. Our future success depends greatly on our ability to enhance our existing line of Datastream 7i™ products. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features to meet our customers’ changing needs, and in particular, those concerning Web-based applications. Industry requirements for product development in our market continue to evolve at a rapid pace. Our ability to successfully and efficiently develop products that meet these evolving requirements will require high levels of innovation, as well as an accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In addition, certain competitors may be able to devote greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources to identify and meet the evolving industry requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify, develop, and market new products or product enhancements that meet or exceed evolving industry requirements or achieve market acceptance. If we do not successfully identify, develop, and market new products or product enhancements, it could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Increasing sales cycles and other factors may result in volatility of our quarterly results. Traditionally, a significant portion of our revenues in any quarter had been the result of a large number of relatively small orders received during the period. Over the last several years, we have seen an increase in the size of our average orders and a decrease in the number of such orders. We expect the average size of our license sales transactions to continue to increase in the coming years. An increase in average deal size also typically increases the length of the average sales cycle. Potential customers spend significant time and resources determining which software to purchase. This requires us to spend substantial time, effort and money educating and convincing prospective customers to purchase our software. A customer’s decision to license our software generally involves evaluation by a number of the customer’s personnel in various functional and geographic areas. Due to these and other factors, our sales cycle may be extended. Since the sales cycle can be unpredictable and can be affected by events beyond our control, we cannot always accurately forecast the timing or amount of specific sales, and sales may vary from quarter to quarter. Further, we typically realize a significant portion of our revenue from sales of software licenses in the last month of a quarter, frequently even in the last days of a quarter. This makes it difficult to gauge the level of license revenue we will have in any single quarter until near to, or after, its conclusion. Failure to close even a small number of large software license contracts may have a significant impact on revenues for any quarter and could, therefore, result in significant fluctuations in quarterly revenues and operating results. Because of these issues, we caution that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance or results. 5 Table of Contents In addition, the market for our asset management software has changed over the last several years, and we expect that it will continue that trend as technology advances continue. As our average license sale size has grown, we have shifted the primary focus of our sales and marketing efforts upon the enterprise-wide deployment of our Datastream 7i solution. We expect to experience a decline in the large number of relatively small orders that had been a staple of our marketing and sales efforts in years past. We have restructured our sales and marketing organizations to facilitate this move to the higher-end transactional model. There can be no guarantee, however, that we will ultimately be successful in making this transition. Also, the overall demand for enterprise asset management software may grow more slowly than we anticipate (or even decrease) in upcoming quarters. We have reported fluctuations in software license revenue in each of the last several years, as we make this transition to predominately higher-end transactions. This may be an indication of the extent of market penetration into the asset management software market, as well as a retrenchment in the way companies purchase enterprise software. To the extent that a slow down in the market for enterprise asset management software develops, it could have a materially adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other factors which could contribute to a fluctuation in our quarterly results include but are not limited to the following: • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • changes in our licensing models or those of our competitors: • changes in customer budgets; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors; • changes in our sales and marketing organization; • technological changes in computer systems and environments; • variability in new licenses obtained; • loss of customers; • changes in the proportion of revenues attributable to licensing fees versus services; • changes in the level of operating expenses; • delay or deferral of customer implementations of our software; • deferral of certain product and/or service revenue to subsequent reporting periods to comply with revenue recognition accounting requirements; • foreign currency exchange rates; and • other economic conditions generally or in our industry. Due to these factors, our operating results could fail to meet the expectations of investors. If that happens, the price of our common stock could decline materially. Our engagements typically require longer implementations and other professional services engagements. Our implementations generally involve an extensive period of delivery of professional services, including the configuration of the solutions, together with customer training and consultation. In addition, existing customers for other professional services projects often retain us for those projects beyond an initial implementation. A successful implementation or other professional services project requires a close working relationship between us, the customer and often third party consultants and systems integrators who assist in the process. These factors may increase the costs associated with completion of any given sale, increase the risks of collection of amounts due during implementations or other professional services projects, and increase risks of delay of such projects. Delays in the completion of an implementation or any other professional services project may require that the revenues associated with such implementation or project be recognized over a longer period than originally anticipated, or may result in disputes with customers, third party consultants or systems integrators regarding performance as originally anticipated. Such delays in the implementation may cause material fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, customers may defer implementation projects or portions of such projects and such deferrals could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our hosting services strategy may reduce profits. We cannot assure you that our hosting service customers will remain customers over a sustained period of time. In addition, our hosting service business model depends heavily on managed services provided by a third party and the economics of scale that are enabled with a shared application platform. A successful hosting service offering must be accessible to customers continually, without disruptions. We cannot provide assurances that the technical infrastructure employed by hosting service customers or prospective hosting service customers is sufficiently robust to prevent disruptions in Internet services beyond our control or that of our managed services provider at our hosting center. If our third party service provider fails to provide consistent access of the applications to our customers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, we cannot assure that the infrastructure of the Internet, or the complementary services necessary to provide these 6 Table of Contents continual and expanding services will be adequate to meet our needs and the needs of our customers in providing our hosting service on a competitive basis. Such connectivity and related issues could adversely affect the growth and customer acceptance of our hosting service business model. In addition, while our traditional business model charges an up-front license fee for access to our software applications, some of the offerings available through our hosting service charge a significantly lower monthly fee for rights to the same applications over a defined term. Certain customers may choose this monthly payment model as opposed to an up-front license fee. Customers of a variety of application software companies are increasingly making available this more flexible approach to accessing software applications. As a result, this subscription model, if widely adopted by our customers, could defer revenue to future periods and significantly lower revenue and profits in the near term. Our electronic procurement strategy may not generate future revenue and profits. Our Datastream 7i Buy application enables our customers to direct procurement of maintenance, repair and operational supplies and services to a select group of suppliers via the Internet. The market for products comparable to Datastream 7i Buy is competitive and there can be no assurances that we will successfully generate sufficient subscription revenue from this initiative. Also, the success of Datastream 7i Buy is substantially dependent on our relationships with certain suppliers and service providers, and we charge suppliers a transaction fee for each transaction executed through the Datastream 7i Buy network. There can be no assurances that this transaction fee model will be profitable or sustainable in the long term. In addition, our third party suppliers and service providers may reassess their commitment to Datastream 7i Buy or decide to compete directly with us for our customers’ procurement in the future. The market for Internet-based procurement of maintenance, repair and operations supplies has experienced considerable change over the past several years and the customer demand for this area has been significantly reduced. As we continue to market and sell the Datastream 7i Buy solution, particularly internationally, we may need to augment our technical infrastructure to meet the requirements of customers for procurement solutions locally. If we are not successful in any of these areas, it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Significant delays in product development would harm our reputation as an innovator and result in a decrease in our revenues. If we experience significant product development delays, our position in the market would be harmed, and our revenues could be substantially reduced, which would adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have issued significant new releases of our software applications approximately annually, with minor interim releases issued more frequently. As a result of the complexities inherent in our solutions, major new product enhancements and new products often require long development and test periods before they are released. On occasion, we have experienced delays in the scheduled release date of new or enhanced products, and we cannot assure you that these delays will not occur in the future. Delays may occur for many reasons, including an inability to hire a sufficient number of developers, discovery of bugs and errors, localization of such products for international use or a failure of our current or future products to conform to industry requirements. Any such delay, or the failure of new products or enhancements in achieving market acceptance, could materially impact our business and reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues. Our future success is substantially dependent on third party relationships. An element of our strategy is to establish and maintain alliances with other companies, such as system integrators, resellers, consultants, and suppliers of products and services for maintenance, repair and operations. These relationships enhance our status in the marketplace, which generates new business opportunities and marketing channels and, in certain cases, additional revenue and profitability. To effectively generate revenue out of these relationships, each party must coordinate and support the sales and marketing efforts of the other, often including making a sizable investment in such sales and marketing activity. Our inability to establish and maintain effective alliances with other companies could impact our success in the marketplace, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, as we cannot control the actions of these third party alliances, if these companies suffer business downturns or fail to meet their objectives, we may experience a resulting diminished revenue and decline in results of operations. In addition, we may face additional competition from these systems integrators and third-party software providers who develop, acquire or market products competitive with our products. Our strategy of marketing our products directly to customers and indirectly through systems integrators and other technology companies may result in distribution channel conflicts. Our direct sales efforts may compete with those of our indirect channels and, to the extent different systems integrators target the same customers, systems integrators may also come into conflict with each other. Any channel conflicts that develop may have a material adverse effect on our relationships with systems integrators or hurt our ability to attract new systems integrators to market our products. 7 Table of Contents We maintain a strategic relationship with IBM under which we have undertaken to integrate our respective products and to market the IBM versions of our products in preference to other versions. Our license revenue may be affected by the success and acceptance of the IBM products relative to those of IBM’s competitors. We may experience difficulties in gaining market acceptance of the IBM version of our products, and difficulties in integrating and coordinating our products and sales efforts with those of IBM. In addition, customers or prospects that have not adopted the IBM technology platform may view our alliance with IBM negatively, and competitive alliances may emerge among other companies that are more attractive to our customers and prospective customers. Our future success is substantially dependent on third party technologies. We rely heavily on third parties that supply us with certain technologies that are crucial to our success. In particular, our line of Internet-based applications is highly dependent on Oracle technology, including Oracle database technology and development tools. Similarly, we are also dependent on Microsoft SQL Server and Internet Explorer. If such technology does not achieve continued market acceptance or if Oracle or other competitors were to develop application software that successfully competed with our application software, it could have a material adverse effect on the acceptance of our products, and thus our results of operations. We also expect to depend on third party technology that facilitates the crucial integration of our products with other systems of our clients. The market for integration solutions and technology to implement enterprise-wide Web Services is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. We expect that competition will remain intense as the number of entrants increases and new and varied technologies emerge. We cannot assure you that third parties will continue to develop new versions of products that successfully facilitate this integration. We also cannot assure you that that the third party technology licenses we depend upon or suitable alternatives will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As we continue to introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, we may continue to license technology from additional third parties. Any failure to obtain any of these technology upgrades or licenses could result in delays or reductions in the introduction of new products, features or functions, or prolong internal development cycles, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, in recent years a non-commercial software model has evolved that presents a growing challenge to our commercial software model. Under the non-commercial software model, open source software produced by loosely associated groups of unpaid programmers and made available for license to end users without charge is distributed at nominal cost by firms that earn revenue on complementary services and products. These firms do not have to bear the full costs of research and development for the open source software. While we believe our products provide customers with significant advantages in functionality and security, and generally have a lower total cost of ownership than open source software, the popularization of the non-commercial software model continues to pose a significant challenge to our business model. To the extent this non-commercial software model gains acceptance in our markets, sales of our products may decline, which may adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Our business could be substantially harmed if we have to correct or delay the release of products due to software bugs or errors. Our software products may contain undetected errors or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. Further, software we license from third parties and incorporate into our products may contain errors, bugs or viruses. Errors, bugs or viruses may cause a loss of or delay in market acceptance, recalls of hardware products incorporating the software or loss of data. Such defects and errors could result in any of the following: • adverse customer reactions; • negative publicity regarding our business and our products; • harm to our reputation; • loss of or delay in market acceptance; • loss of revenue or required product changes; • diversion of development resources and increased development expenses; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal action by our customers; and • increased insurance costs. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our international operations, our business could be adversely affected. We generate our international sales through our international sales subsidiaries, as well as through a variety of indirect sales and marketing channel alliances. Our business, and our ability to maintain and expand our operations internationally, is subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including, in particular: • difficulty in staffing and managing an organization spread over several continents; • greater difficulty in safeguarding our intellectual property; • acceptance of localized versions of our products; • cultural differences in the conduct of business; • maintaining uniform administrative controls in each country in accounting for customer contractual commitments in accordance with current U.S. accounting standards; • general economic and political conditions in each country; • fluctuating economic and political conditions affecting geographic regions; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • negative effects relating to hostilities, war or terrorist acts around the world; • unexpected changes in regulatory or tax requirements that restrict repatriation of earnings to the U.S.; • increased trade restrictions; • changes in tariff rates; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles in certain countries; • product compliance with local language and business customs; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • the burden of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand internationally, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our success internationally depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage the difficulties they present. In the past, we acquired several international businesses. As a result of these acquisitions, we are more deeply involved with international markets that are less familiar. We cannot assure that we will successfully compete in these international markets. We anticipate that our future results of operations may be subject to quarterly variations as a result, in part, of the seasonal revenue fluctuations in Europe, Asia and Latin America, principally consisting of slower business conditions in the first and third quarters of the year. Further, we conduct virtually all of our business in US Dollars, European Euros, Japanese Yen, United Kingdom Pounds Sterling, Singapore and Australian Dollars, Argentinean, Chilean and Mexican Pesos, Brazilian Real, and Chinese Renminbi. Changes in the value of these currencies relative to the dollar could negatively impact our financial condition. We do not engage in hedging transactions, and an unfavorable foreign exchange rate at the time of conversion to US Dollars could adversely affect the US Dollar equivalent value of the foreign denominated cash. In trying to increase our sales in certain vertical markets, we may face difficulties and risks unique to those markets that may have a detrimental impact on our business or operating results. We have made significant development, marketing and sales efforts to meet the needs of customers in particular industries or market segments, such as life sciences, government and facilities management. In the event our efforts do not progress as we intend or our solutions or technologies are not successful in these discrete vertical markets, we may increase our rate of spending above the level we have in the past or have previously projected. Such increased level of effort and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We continue to expand our customer base to include more entities and agencies within the federal, state, local and foreign government sector. Developing new business in the public sector often requires companies to develop relationships with different agencies or entities, as well as with other government contractors. If we are unable to develop or sustain these relationships, we may be unable to procure new contracts within the timeframe we expect, and our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Contracting with government entities often requires businesses to participate in a highly competitive bidding process to obtain new contracts. We may be unable to bid competitively if our software or services are improperly priced, or if we are incapable of providing our software and services at a competitive price. The bidding process is an expensive and time-consuming endeavor that may result in a financial loss for us if we fail to win a contract on which we submitted a bid. Further, some government agencies may also require some or all of our personnel to obtain a security clearance or may require us to add features or functionality to our software. If our key personnel are unable to obtain or retain this clearance or if we cannot or do not provide required features or functionality, we may be unsuccessful in our bid for some government contracts. 9 Table of Contents Contracts with governmental entities also frequently include provisions not found in the private sector and are often governed by laws and regulations that do not affect private contracts. These differences may permit the public sector customer to take actions not available to customers in the private sector. This may include termination of current contracts for convenience or due to a default, or recourse to bond or other security we have provided in connection with the bid or contract. Our federal government can also suspend operations if Congress does not allocate sufficient funds, and the government may allow our competitors to protest our successful bids. If any of these events occur, they may negatively affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to keep pace with regulatory changes applicable to our applications, it could impact the results of our operations. The federal government may terminate its contractual relationships with us if we come under foreign government control or influence, may require that we disclose our pricing data during the course of negotiations, and may require us to prevent access to classified data. If the federal government requires us to meet any of these demands, it could result in increased costs or an inability to take advantage of certain opportunities that may present themselves in the future. In addition, federal government agencies may audit our performance and our pricing, and review our compliance with rules and regulations. If they find that we have improperly allocated costs, they may require us to refund those costs or may refuse to pay us for outstanding balances related to the improper allocation. An unfavorable audit could result in a reduction of revenue, and may result in civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. This could harm our business, financial results and reputation. Deterioration of economic and political conditions could adversely affect operations. We have operational presence in the United States, as well as throughout Europe, Latin America, and the Pacific Rim, and we are subject to the economic and political uncertainties that may be associated with the threat of terrorism, generally, or with military action taken by the United States or its allies, in particular. These risks include: • the possibility that our customers may cancel, defer or limit purchases as a result of such threat or the responses to it; and • the possibility that air travel delays or cancellations and restrictions imposed by companies could adversely affect our licensing efforts or our services revenue, as they result in our inability to visit customer sites or customers’ inability to visit our offices. Additionally, apart from the economy as a whole, declining economic conditions in particular industries or in the vertical markets to which we have focused our efforts may have a significant effect on our operating results. For example, the downward turn in the automotive industry has had a negative impact on the revenue produced from our Datastream 7i Buy operations. As the large auto makers cut back on production, their tier one suppliers also reduce purchasing, resulting in less indirect spending through our Datastream 7i Buy portal. A similar trend in the public sector, manufacturing, pharmaceutical or food production markets in which we have invested focus and capital would likely have a similar negative impact on our operating results. Security risks and concerns may deter the use of the Internet for our applications. A significant barrier to communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems or those of other web sites that protect proprietary information. If any well-publicized compromises of security were to occur, it could have the effect of substantially reducing the use of the Internet for our market. While we have taken precautionary measures to protect our facilities, an unauthorized person circumventing our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses, software programs that disable or impair computers, have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our customers or suppliers, which could disrupt Datastream 7i Buy or make it inaccessible to customers or suppliers. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. To the extent that our activities may involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business would be harmed if we do not prevent them. 10 Table of Contents Our common stock is not listed on any exchange or quoted on the Nasdaq National Market; therefore, a public market in our common stock may not be sustained, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock at or near ask prices or at all. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets by eligible market makers in our common stock. Because there is no established public trading market for our common stock, it may be difficult for stockholders to either dispose of or obtain quotations as to the price of our common stock. In addition, we have no control over how actively market makers quote our common stock on the Pink Sheets, and we cannot assure investors that they will be able to liquidate their investment in us without considerable delay, if at all. We cannot assure stockholders that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be maintained, or that current trading levels on the Pink Sheets will be maintained. Failure to develop or maintain an active trading market could negatively affect the price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis. As a result, market makers in our common stock could be deterred from quoting our common stock on the Pink Sheets, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, and the trading price of our common stock could fall. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005, we cannot be certain that (1) we have effectively corrected all prior existing internal control deficiencies; (2) we will not identify one or more additional deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting during future fiscal years; or (3) we will implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future. Failure to maintain adequate controls of this type could adversely impact the accuracy and future timeliness of our financial reports filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If we cannot provide reliable and timely financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors and market makers in our common stock could lose confidence in our reported financial information, market makers in our common stock could be deterred from quoting our common stock on the Pink Sheets, and the trading price of our common stock could fall. Compliance with new accounting, reporting and audit requirements may strain our limited administrative, financial and executive resources and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The corporate governance and reporting reforms contained in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulatory constraints have dramatically increased our general and administrative expenses and may continue to do so. Increases of this magnitude can be more easily absorbed by companies that have greater financial and administrative resources than we do. The delays and expenses caused by our efforts to meet the new regulatory landscape contributed to our non-compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements. These added public company expenses may put us at a competitive disadvantage with larger companies better suited to absorb such expenses and with smaller, private companies unencumbered by these public company expenses. We have historically used stock options and other long-term incentives as a key component of our employee compensation structure. We believe that with stock options, we have been able to align our employees’ interests with those of our stockholders and have provided employees with incentives both to maximize long-term stockholder value and to continue employment with us. With the FASB’s issuance of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payments or SFAS 123(R) in December 2004 (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report), beginning in 2006, we are required to recognize compensation costs related to new and unvested share-based payment transactions as current expenses in our financial statements. This regulation could have a negative impact on our earnings. To the extent that SFAS 123(R) make it more difficult or expensive to grant stock options to our employees under our stock option plans, this new regulation will increase compensation costs, decrease our operating margins, change our equity compensation strategy, or complicate our ability to motivate and retain key employees, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Completion of the merger with Infor is subject to various conditions and the merger may not occur even if we do obtain stockholder approval. Completion of the merger is subject to various risks, including but not limited to those set forth below. The list is not intended to be an exhaustive list of the risks related to the merger and should be read in conjunction with the other information in our definitive proxy statement dated February 21, 2006. • Stockholders holding at least a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote might not vote to adopt the merger agreement; 11 Table of Contents • The right of the Infor parties to terminate the merger agreement if we experience an event that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on us, as that term is defined in the merger agreement; • Our failure or the failure of the Infor parties to obtain the required regulatory approvals regarding the merger; • The enactment of a law or issuance of an order by a governmental authority prohibiting the merger or other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement; • The pendency of a nonfrivolous suit or action, or any governmental proceeding, challenging or seeking to restrain the merger or the ability of the Infor parties to acquire our common stock; • Holders of more than 10% of our outstanding common stock might elect to exercise their appraisal rights under Delaware law; • The failure of any other conditions in the merger agreement; and • The failure of the Infor parties to obtain the financing contemplated by their debt and equity commitment letters entered into at the time of execution of the merger agreement. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that the merger will be completed even if we obtain stockholder approval. If our stockholders do not adopt the merger agreement or if the merger is not completed for any other reason, we expect that our current management, under the direction of our current board of directors, will continue to manage Datastream. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and operation of our business. If the merger with Infor is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to a number of material risks, including: • the market price of our common stock will likely decline to the extent that the current market price of our stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • costs related to the merger, such as legal fees and certain investment banking fees, and, in specified circumstances, termination fees and expense reimbursements, must be paid even if the merger is not completed; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business and the unavoidable disruption to our employees and our relationships with distributors, customers and suppliers, during the period before completion of the merger, may make it difficult for us to regain our financial and market position if the merger does not occur. If our merger agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, then our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find an acquirer willing to pay an equivalent or better price than the price agreed to be paid under the merger agreement. We must recruit and retain key employees in order to be successful, and we may lose key personnel as a result of uncertainties associated with the merger with Infor. Our continued success depends on the services of several of our key executive, sales and marketing and technical employees. Our business generally requires a significant level of expertise to effectively develop and market our products and services. The loss of the services of these personnel, particularly those of Larry G. Blackwell, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or our inability to attract and retain other qualified management, sales and marketing and technical employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have at times experienced, and continue to experience, difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Recruiting qualified personnel is an intensely competitive and time-consuming process. Such competition has resulted in demands for increased compensation from qualified applicants. Due to such competition, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, turnover in personnel. If we are unable to offer competitive salaries and bonuses, our key technical, sales, professional and executive personnel may be unwilling to continue service for us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose any member of our executive management team and are unable to secure a suitable replacement, or they are unable to work together effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer. We do not maintain any key-man life insurance policy with respect to any member of our executive management team. 12 Table of Contents In addition, because of our pending merger with Infor, our current and prospective employees may be uncertain about their future roles and relationships with us following completion of the merger. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, it could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, software licenses, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We generally enter into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our key employees, consultants, distributors and strategic affiliates as well as with our customers and potential customers seeking proprietary information. We also limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken in this regard, however, will be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of our technology. Further, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future products. Any such claims or litigation, even those without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, diversion of management’s attention and cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determinations in such claims or litigation also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. We may be subject to additional risks as we enter into transactions in countries where intellectual property laws are not well developed or are poorly enforced. Legal protections of our rights may be ineffective in such countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The merger agreement with the Infor parties, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a change in control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. We have agreed to be acquired by Infor, subject to a number of conditions, including the approval of our stockholders. The merger agreement includes provisions that would make it more difficult for a competing party to acquire us. These provisions include our agreements not to solicit other offers and not to provide information to a potential bidder unless our board of directors determines that a superior proposal could be made by the person to whom we provide the information, as well as our agreement to pay a termination fee to Infor if we terminate the merger agreement and complete another transaction. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a change in control, even when a change in control may be in the interests of our stockholders. For example, our board of directors is empowered to issue preferred stock without stockholder action. The existence of this “blank-check” preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an effort to obtain control of our company by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Our certificate of incorporation also divides the board of directors into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three-year terms. The classification of the board of directors could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us because only one-third of the board is up for election each year. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions may also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that relate to business combinations with interested stockholders, which can serve to inhibit a takeover. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 