ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Company’s common stock involves a degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition or results or operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Certain statements in this report contain forward-looking information. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures, or other financial items, and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "may," "will," and other similar terminology. These statements speak only as of the date they are made and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Several factors, many beyond our control, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Our planned expansion may not be successful We are currently building new restaurants in our existing markets and expect to open at least twenty-six new restaurants in fiscal year 2006. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to various risks such as identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, variations in labor and building materials costs, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants for an indeterminate amount of time. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations National, regional and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown or a worsening economy, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material effect on our results of operations. Changes in customer preferences for casual dining styles could adversely affect our financial performance Changing customer preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. We offer a large variety of entrees, side dishes and desserts and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our cuisine and casual style of dining. A change from this dining style may have an adverse effect on our business. Labor shortages, an increase in labor costs, or inability to attract the associates could harm our business Our associates are essential to the operation of our restaurants and our ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests. If we are unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant personnel at a reasonable cost, and if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience, our results may be negatively affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. Increases in employee minimum wages by the federal or state government could adversely affect our business Many of our associates are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Any increases in the minimum wage rates may significantly increase our restaurant operating costs. In addition, since our business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial performance. Fluctuation in commodity prices and availability of commodities including, beef, poultry, and dairy could affect our business A significant component of our costs are related to food commodities including beef, poultry, and dairy products. If there is a substantial increase in prices for our products, and we are unable to offset the increases with changes in our menu prices, our results may be negatively affected. Due to our geographic locations, certain restaurants are subject to climate conditions that could affect operations Many of our restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, many restaurants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, many restaurants in the Southeast may face harsh weather associated with hurricanes or tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants, or may necessitate the closure of our restaurants for a period of time. If guests are unable to visit our restaurants, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. Inability to attract and retain guests in our restaurants could affect our results of operations We take pride in our ability to attract and retain our guests, however if we do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our guests, they may not return to our restaurants, and results may be negatively affected. We face competition in the restaurant industry, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial performance will be adversely affected. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and is affected by changes in customer tastes, dietary habits, and by economic and demographic trends. New menu items, concepts, and trends are constantly merging. We compete on quality, variety, value, service, price, and location. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. ITEM 