ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Biglari Holdings and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as “we,” us,” “our,” or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. We are dependent on our Chairman and CEO. Our success depends in large part on the services of Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. All major operating, investment, and capital allocation decisions are made for us by Mr. Biglari. If for any reason the services of Mr. Biglari were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. We face continually increasing competition in the restaurant industry for guests, staff, locations, and new products, which may negatively impact operating performance. The restaurant business is one of the most intensely competitive industries in the United States. As there are virtually no barriers to entry into the restaurant business, competitors may include national, regional and local establishments. There may be established competitors with financial and other resources that are greater than the Company’s Restaurant Operations capabilities. Restaurant businesses compete on the basis of price, menu, 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS food quality, location, personnel and customer service. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and by national, regional, and local economic conditions. The performance of individual restaurants may be impacted by factors such as traffic patterns, demographic trends, severe weather conditions, and competing restaurants. Additional factors that may adversely affect the restaurant industry include, but are not limited, to food and wage inflation, safety, and food-borne illness. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our restaurant business. The restaurant industry has been affected by current economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. As a result, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions could adversely affect our ability to access credit markets and impact the availability of financing for our franchisees’ expansions and operations. Our cash flows and financial position could be negatively impacted if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements. The Company and its subsidiaries currently maintain debt instruments, including the indenture governing the 14% redeemable subordinated debentures due 2015 issued by the Company, Steak n Shake’s Revolving Credit Facility and the promissory note issued by Western’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Western Real Estate, L.P. Covenants in the debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions, including requiring operating subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios and restricting, among other things, their ability to incur additional indebtedness, prepay certain indebtedness and make distributions to the Company. Their failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could constitute an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result, among other things, in the acceleration of their indebtedness, which could negatively impact our operations and business and may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. In addition, the restrictions contained in these debt instruments could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisition or investments, engage in business activities, including future opportunities that may be in our interest, and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our long-lived assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Long-lived assets, including restaurant sites, leasehold improvements, other fixed assets, and amortized intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Expected cash flows associated with an asset over its estimated useful life are the key factor in determining the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset. The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance. Management’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business model or changes in operating performance. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows over an asset’s estimated useful life is less than the carrying value of the asset, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Judgments made by management related to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in economic conditions and changes in operating performance. As the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of long-lived assets are assessed, these factors could cause us to realize a material impairment charge. If assets are determined to be impaired, the determination of an asset’s fair value, which is generally measured by discounting estimated future cash flows, is also subject to significant judgment, including the determination of a discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in the projected cash flows. If the assumptions underlying these judgments change in the future, we may be required to realize further impairment charges for these assets. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fluctuations in commodity and energy prices and the availability of commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy, could affect our restaurant business. The cost, availability and quality of ingredients Restaurant Operations use to prepare their food is subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond their control. A significant component of our restaurant business’s costs is related to food commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy products, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets, and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, our restaurants are dependent upon frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. Our historical growth rate and performance may not be indicative of our future growth or financial results. Our historical growth must be viewed in the context of the recent opportunities available to us as a result of our access to capital at a time when market conditions resulted in unprecedented asset acquisition opportunities. When evaluating our historical growth and prospects for future growth, it is also important to consider that while our business philosophy has remained relatively constant, our mix of business, distribution channels and areas of focus have changed over the last year and may continue to change. Our dynamic business model makes it difficult to assess our prospects for future growth. The inability of Restaurant Operations’ franchisees to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our financial performance. Restaurant Operations operate franchise programs and collect royalties and marketing and service fees from their franchisees. Growth within the existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to our Restaurant Operations’ company-owned restaurants, and sometimes the challenges of opening profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for the franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements. In addition, our Restaurant Operations’ continued growth is also partially dependent upon our ability to find and retain qualified franchisees in new markets, which may include markets in which the Steak n Shake and Western brands are less well known. Furthermore, the loss of any of franchisees due to financial concerns and/or operational inefficiencies could impact our Restaurant Operations’ profitability. Moreover, if our franchisees do not successfully operate or market restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, our restaurant brands’ reputations could be harmed, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Adverse weather conditions or losses due to casualties could negatively impact our operating performance. Although our restaurants maintain, and require franchisees to maintain, property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, instances of inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, fire, and other acts of nature can adversely impact sales in several ways. Many of Steak n Shake and Western’s restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Southeast may experience hurricanes or tropical storms. Our sales and operating results may be negatively affected by these harsh weather conditions, which could make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants, necessitate the closure of restaurants for a period of time or costly repairs due to physical damage or lead to a shortage of employees resulting from unsafe road conditions or an evacuation of the general population. We are subject to health, employment, environmental, and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation or penalties, damage our reputation, and lower profits. We are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting our business. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS The development and construction of restaurants is subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use, and environmental regulations. Difficulties in obtaining, or failure to obtain, the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory, and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result, Restaurant Operations may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of the Steak n Shake and Western franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states, and to rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Our investment activities may involve the purchase of securities on margin. We may purchase securities on margin in connection with our investment activities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P. and Lion Fund. If we do so, a significant decrease in the value of the securities that collateralize the margin line of credit could result in a margin call. If we do not have sufficient cash available from other sources in the event of a margin call, we may be required to sell those securities at a time when we prefer not to sell them, which could result in material losses. Our investment activities could require registration as an Investment Company. While most of our assets continue to be dedicated in controlled companies, there is a risk that if we fail to maintain this threshold of investments in controlled companies, it could bring us within the definition of an “investment company” and require us to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). Also, under certain circumstances, we may inadvertently fall within the definition of an investment company, which would require us to register as an investment company. If our investment activities result in our being determined to be an investment company and we fail to register as an investment company, we might be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, and third parties could seek rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period that we were an unregistered investment company, subject to equitable considerations set forth in the Investment Company Act. In addition, we might be subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought against us by the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we decide to register as an investment company, then we would become subject to various provisions of the Investment Company Act and the regulations adopted under such act, which are very extensive and could adversely affect our operations. For example, we might be prohibited from entering into or continuing transactions with certain of our affiliates. Our investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to a loss in value. Our investments are generally concentrated in common stocks. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease in our consolidated shareholders’ equity and under certain circumstances may require the recognition of losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated book value. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. We are or may be from time to time a party to various legal actions brought by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others in connection with matters incidental to our business. The outcome of such litigation is difficult to assess or quantify and the cost to defend future litigation may be significant. Even if a claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any negative allegation regarding our Company, our business or our products could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers. While we believe that the ultimate outcome of routine litigation matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on our financial position, we cannot assure that an adverse outcome on any of these matters would not, in fact, materially impact our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 