ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other filings that we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition results or operations or cash flows. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Certain statements in this report contain forward-looking information. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures, or other financial items, and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "may," "will," and other similar terminology. These statements speak only as of the date they are made and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Several factors, many beyond our control, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Our planned expansion may not be successful. We are currently building new restaurants in our existing markets and expect to continue to open additional new restaurants going forward. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to risks such as identifying and securing suitable and economically viable locations, negotiating acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, obtaining required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, complying with other regulatory requirements, securing necessary contractors, subcontractors and labor, meeting construction schedules and budgets, increasing labor and building materials costs, and adverse weather conditions or other acts of God that could result in construction delays. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. Our expansion plan includes adding locations in some of our existing markets. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations in these markets may cause us to over-saturate markets and temporarily or permanently divert guests from our existing restaurants, thereby adversely affecting our overall profitability. We also plan to open restaurants in markets in which we have little or no meaningful experience. Those markets may have different competitive market conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending habits, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. This could cause us to close restaurants, adversely affecting our overall profitability. Due to our smaller restaurant base, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by the negative performance of or the decision to close a small number of restaurants. Our restaurant base is smaller than many other restaurant chains. Accordingly, poor operating results in one or more of our markets or the decision to close even a relatively small number of under-performing restaurants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operating results could vary significantly if we are unable to attract guests to our restaurants and earn their repeat business. We take pride in our ability to attract and retain our guests, however if we do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our guests or are unable to provide them with the food quality they expect, they may not return to our restaurants, and results may be negatively affected. Changes in guest preferences for casual dining styles or menu items could adversely affect our financial performance. Changing guest preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. We offer a large variety of entrees, side dishes and desserts and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our product offerings and casual style of dining. A change in guest preferences away from this dining style or our offerings in favor of other dining styles or offerings may have an adverse effect on our business. Increases in the minimum wage rates by federal or state governments could adversely affect our business. Many of our associates are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Any increases in the minimum wage rates may significantly increase our restaurant operating costs. In addition, since our business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial performance. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities We own the land and building, or lease the land and/or the building for our restaurants. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of our assets could decrease, and our costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the restaurants in the area, as well as liability for environmental conditions. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may, nonetheless, be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. 10 Labor shortages, an increase in labor costs, or inability to attract qualified associates could harm our business. Our associates are essential to the operation of our restaurants and our ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests. If we are unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant personnel at a reasonable cost, or if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests, our results may be negatively affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages or provide greater benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. Fluctuations in commodity prices and the availability of commodities, including beef, poultry, and dairy could affect our business. A significant component of our costs are related to food commodities, including beef, poultry, and dairy products, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, and we are unable to offset the increases with changes in our menu pricing, our results of operation may be negatively affected. In addition, we are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage our reputation and otherwise harm our business. Due to our geographic locations, certain restaurants are subject to climate conditions that could affect operations. Many of our restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, many restaurants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, many restaurants in the Southeast may face harsh weather associated with hurricanes or tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants, or may necessitate the closure of our restaurants for a period of time. If guests are unable to visit our restaurants, or if our restaurants are closed as the result of inclement weather, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Restaurant chains such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury caused by food tampering, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to even just one of our restaurants, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand which could immediately and severely hurt sales and accordingly, revenues and profits. If guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, due to negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect sales. We are subject to health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage our reputation and lower profits. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result, we may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 11 ITEM 