Item 1A. Risk Factors Biglari Holdings and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as “we,” us,” “our,” or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. We are dependent on our Chairman and CEO. Our success depends on the services of Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. All major operating, investment, and capital allocation decisions are made for the Company and its subsidiaries by Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Moreover, certain counterparties have requested and obtained a provision in their agreements with the right to terminate in the event Mr. Biglari ceases to be our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. If for any reason the services of Mr. Biglari were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Competition. Each of our operating businesses faces intense competitive pressure within the markets in which they operate. Competition may arise domestically as well as internationally. While we manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results may decline from current levels in the future. The restaurant business is one of the most competitive industries. As there are virtually no barriers to entry into the restaurant business, competitors may include national, regional and local establishments. There may be established competitors with financial and other resources that are greater than the Company’s Restaurant Operations capabilities. Restaurant businesses compete on the basis of price, menu, food quality, location, personnel and customer service. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and by national, regional, and local economic conditions. The performance of individual restaurants may be impacted by factors such as traffic patterns, demographic trends, severe weather conditions, and competing restaurants. Additional factors that may adversely affect the restaurant industry include, but are not limited to, food and wage inflation, safety, and food-borne illness. Unfavorable economic, societal and political conditions could hurt our operating businesses. Our operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which we operate. To the extent that the recovery from the economic recession continues to be slow or the economy worsens for a prolonged period of time, one or more of our significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, we depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the credit is restricted or the cost of funding increases, our business could be adversely affected. As a result of our international expansion, we may become subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest. Further, terrorism activities deriving from unstable conditions or acts intended to compromise the integrity or security of our computer networks and information systems could produce losses to our international operations, as well as our operations based in the United States. Our business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources or destruction of production facilities and information systems. The restaurant industry has been affected by economic factors, including the deterioration of global, national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The disruptions experienced in the global economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. As a result, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions could adversely impact the availability of financing for our franchisees’ expansions and operations. 5 Our cash flows and financial position could be negatively impacted if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in Steak n Shake’s debt agreements. The Company’s subsidiaries currently maintain debt instruments, including Steak n Shake’s credit agreement, dated as of September 25, 2012, as amended, with the lenders party thereto (the “Credit Facility”). Covenants in the debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions, including requiring operating subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios and thereby restricting, among other things, their ability to incur additional indebtedness and make distributions to the Company. Their failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could constitute an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result, among other things, in the acceleration of their indebtedness, which could negatively impact our operations and business and may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. In such event, our cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay this indebtedness and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure this debt. In addition, the restrictions contained in these debt instruments could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions or investments. Steak n Shake’s ability to make payments on the Credit Facility and to fund operations depends on its ability to generate cash, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Steak n Shake may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service this debt or to fund its other liquidity needs. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our long-lived assets and goodwill, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Long-lived assets, including restaurant sites, leasehold improvements, other fixed assets, and amortized intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Expected cash flows associated with an asset over its estimated useful life are the key factor in determining the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset. The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance. Management’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business model or changes in operating performance. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows over an asset’s estimated useful life is less than the carrying value of the asset, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. We periodically evaluate our goodwill to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. Judgments made by management related to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in economic conditions and changes in operating performance. As the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of long-lived assets are assessed, these factors could cause us to realize a material impairment charge. If assets are determined to be impaired, the determination of an asset’s fair value, which is generally measured by discounting estimated future cash flows, is also subject to significant judgment, including the determination of a discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in the projected cash flows. If the assumptions underlying these judgments change in the future, we may be required to realize further impairment charges for these assets. Our historical growth rate and performance are not indicative of our future growth or financial results. Our historical growth must be viewed in the context of the recent opportunities available to us as a result of our access to capital at a time when market conditions resulted in unprecedented asset acquisition opportunities. When evaluating our historical growth and prospects for future growth, it is also important to consider that while our business philosophy has remained relatively constant, our mix of business, distribution channels and areas of focus have changed and will continue to change. Our dynamic business model makes it difficult to assess our prospects for future growth. 6 Fluctuations in commodity and energy prices and the availability of commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy, could affect our restaurant business. The cost, availability and quality of ingredients Restaurant Operations use to prepare their food is subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond their control. A significant component of our restaurant business’ costs is related to food commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy products, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets, and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, our restaurants are dependent upon frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. We face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets. There is no assurance that our international operations will be profitable. Our international operations are subject to all of the risks associated with our domestic operations, as well as a number of additional risks, varying substantially country by country. These include, inter alia, international economic and political conditions, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, foreign currency fluctuations, differing cultures and consumer preferences. Our expansion into international markets could also create risks to our brands. In addition, we may become subject to foreign governmental regulations that impact the way we do business with our international franchisees and vendors. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and applicable local law. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business and our financial condition. The inability of Restaurant Operations’ franchisees to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our financial performance. Restaurant Operations operate franchise programs and collect royalties and marketing and service fees from their franchisees. Growth within the existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to our Restaurant Operations’ company-operated restaurants, and sometimes the challenges of opening profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for the franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements. In addition, our Restaurant Operations’ continued growth is also partially dependent upon our ability to find and retain qualified franchisees in new markets, which may include markets in which the Steak n Shake and Western brands are less well known. Furthermore, the loss of any franchisees due to financial concerns and/or operational inefficiencies could impact our Restaurant Operations’ profitability. Moreover, if our franchisees do not successfully operate or market restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, our restaurant brands’ reputations could be harmed, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Adverse weather conditions or losses due to casualties could negatively impact our operating performance. Property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, instances of inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, fire, and other acts of nature can adversely impact sales in several ways. Many of Steak n Shake’s and Western’s restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Southeast may experience hurricanes or tropical storms. Our sales and operating results may be negatively affected by these harsh weather conditions, which could make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants, necessitate the closure of restaurants for a period of time or costly repairs due to physical damage or lead to a shortage of employees resulting from unsafe road conditions or an evacuation of the general population. 7 We are subject to health, employment, environmental, and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation or penalties, damage our reputation, and lower profits. We are subject to various global, federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting our business. Changes in existing laws, rules and regulations applicable to us, or increased enforcement by governmental authorities, may require us to incur additional costs and expenses necessary for compliance. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. The development and construction of restaurants is subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use, and environmental regulations. Difficulties in obtaining, or failure to obtain, the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory, and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result, Restaurant Operations may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of the Steak n Shake and Western franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states, and to rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Further national, state and local government initiatives, such as mandatory health insurance coverage, “living wage” or other proposed increases in minimum wage rates could adversely affect our business. Our investment activities are now conducted primarily through outside investment partnerships: The Lion Fund, L.P. and The Lion Fund II, L.P. As a result of our sale of Biglari Capital Corp. (“Biglari Capital”), general partner of The Lion Fund, L.P. and The Lion Fund II, L.P. (collectively, the “investment partnerships”), to Mr. Biglari, and the contribution of our investments to these funds in exchange for limited partner interests, our investment activities are now conducted mainly through these outside investment partnerships. Under the terms of their partnership agreements, each contribution made by the Company to the investment partnerships is subject to a five-year lock-up period, and any distribution upon our withdrawal of funds will be paid out over a two-year period. As a result of these provisions, our capital invested in the investment partnerships may be subject to an increased risk of loss of all or a significant portion of value, and may become unable to meet our capital requirements. In connection with the sale of Biglari Capital, we also entered into a Shared Services Agreement with Biglari Capital pursuant to which we agreed to provide certain services to Biglari Capital (e.g., use of space at our corporate headquarters) in exchange for a 6% hurdle rate for the Company and its subsidiaries (as compared to a 5% hurdle rate for all other limited partners), above which Biglari Capital is entitled to receive an incentive reallocation in its capacity as general partner of the investment partnerships. There can be no assurance that the benefit, if any, we may realize from this increased hurdle rate will enable us to recoup our costs incurred in performing services for Biglari Capital under the Shared Services Agreement. Our investment activities may involve the purchase of securities on margin. We may purchase securities on margin in connection with our investment activities. If we do so, a significant decrease in the value of the securities that collateralize the margin line of credit could result in a margin call. If we do not have sufficient cash available from other sources in the event of a margin call, we may be required to sell those securities at a time when we prefer not to sell them, which could result in material losses. Our investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to a loss in value. Our investments are concentrated in outside limited partnerships, which generally invest in common stocks. A significant decline in the major values of these partnerships may produce a large decrease in our consolidated shareholders’ equity and can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated book value per share and earnings. 8 We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in entities in which we do not have a controlling interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company, which would require us to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. To avoid becoming and registering as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions accordingly. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. We may also become subject to these risks in the international markets in which we plan to operate. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. We are or may be from time to time a party to various legal actions, investigations and other proceedings brought by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders, government agencies or other third parties in connection with matters pertaining to our business, including related to our investment activities. The outcome of such matters is often difficult to assess or quantify and the cost to defend future proceedings may be significant. Even if a claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any negative allegation regarding our Company, our business or our products could adversely affect our reputation. While we believe that the ultimate outcome of routine legal proceedings individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on our financial position, we cannot assure that an adverse outcome on, or reputational damage from, any of these matters would not, in fact, materially impact our business and results of operations for the period when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved. Certain agreements with our Chairman and CEO may deter a change of control. We have entered into a license agreement with Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, under which Mr. Biglari has granted the Company an exclusive license to use his name when connected to the provision of certain products and services, and a sublicense agreement with Steak n Shake that, among other things, grants Steak n Shake the right to use the trademark “Steak n Shake by Biglari.” In the event of a change of control of the Company, Mr. Biglari would be entitled to receive revenue-based royalty payments related to the usage of his name under the terms of the license agreement for a defined period of no less than five years. Revenue-based royalties derived from Steak n Shake’s restaurants (including Company operated and franchised locations), products and brands, would be included in calculating these royalty payments. A change of control would also enable franchisees to terminate their franchise agreement with us. In addition, we have an incentive agreement with Mr. Biglari, in which he is entitled to receive performance-based annual incentive payments contingent on the growth of the Company’s adjusted book value in each fiscal year. In the event of a change in control after the third anniversary of the incentive agreement, Mr. Biglari would receive specified payments thereunder. The combination of these provisions along with others referenced (e.g., contracts cancellable if Mr. Biglari is no longer Chairman and CEO) altogether could have the effect of preventing a transaction involving a change of control of the Company or deterrence of a potential proxy contest. 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 