ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you may lose part or all of your investment. This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures or other financial items, and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "may," and other similar terminology. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, many beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Accordingly, such forward-looking statements do not purport to be predictions of future events or circumstances and may not be realized. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise them, except as may be required by law. Our new stores may not perform up to expectations. We are currently planning to open fewer new restaurants in fiscal 2008 than in recent years. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to risks such as identifying and securing suitable and economically viable locations, negotiating acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, obtaining required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, complying with other regulatory requirements, securing necessary contractors, subcontractors and labor, meeting construction schedules and budgets, increasing labor and building materials costs and adverse weather conditions or other acts of God that could result in construction delays. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. We face continually increasing competition in the restaurant industry for locations, guests, staff, supplies and new products, which may prevent us from reversing negative same store sales trends. Our business is subject to intense competition with respect to prices, services, locations, qualified management personnel and quality of food. We compete with other food service operations, with locally-owned restaurants and with other national and regional restaurant chains that offer the same or similar types of services and products. Some of our competitors may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Changes in consumer tastes, national, regional, or local economic conditions, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the types and numbers and locations of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business. There is active competition for management personnel and for attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor, equipment, fixture and benefit costs, as well as difficulty in attracting qualified management and hourly employees may adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. We expect our first quarter fiscal 2008 same store sales to be down more than the low end of our annual range of down 1% to 5%. If our strategy does not improve same store sales, our operating results and business would be adversely affected. The inability of our franchises to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our continued financial success. We operate a franchise program and collect royalties, marketing and service fees from the franchisees. The ability of franchisees to generate profits impacts our overall profitability and brand recognition. Growth within the existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to our Company-owned restaurants, and sometimes the challenges of opening profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for our franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. In addition, our continued growth is also partially dependent upon our ability to find and retain qualified franchisees in new markets, which may include markets in which the Steak n Shake brand is less well known. Furthermore, the loss of any of our franchisees due to financial concerns and/or operational inefficiencies could impact our profitability and brand. Our franchisees are required to operate their restaurants according to our guidelines. We provide training opportunities to our franchise operators to fully integrate them into our operating strategy. However, since we do not have control over these restaurants, we cannot give assurance that there will not be differences in product quality or that there will be adherence to all of our guidelines at these franchised restaurants. In order to mitigate these risks, we do require that our franchisees focus on the quality of their operations, and we expect full compliance with our standards. 10 Table of Contents Due to our smaller restaurant base, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by the negative performance of or the decision to close a small number of restaurants. Our restaurant base is smaller than many other restaurant chains. Accordingly, poor operating results in one or more of our markets or the decision to close even a relatively small number of underperforming restaurants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. Our operating results could vary significantly if we are unable to attract guests to our restaurants and earn their repeat business. We take pride in our ability to attract and retain our guests, however if we do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our guests or are unable to provide them with the food quality they expect, they may not return to our restaurants, and results may be negatively affected. Changes in guest preferences for casual dining styles or menu items could adversely affect our financial performance. Changing guest preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. We offer a large variety of entrees, side dishes and desserts, and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our product offerings and casual style of dining. A change in guest preferences away from this dining style or our offerings in favor of other dining styles or offerings may have an adverse effect on our business. Increases in the minimum wage rates by federal or state governments could adversely affect our business. Many of our associates are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Any increases in the minimum wage rates may significantly increase our restaurant operating costs. In addition, since our business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial performance. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities We own the land and building or lease the land and/or the building for our restaurants. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of our assets could decrease and our costs could increase because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, supply or demand for the use of restaurants in an area, or liabilities for environmental conditions. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If we decide to close an underperforming existing store, or if we decide not to open a planned future store, we may, nonetheless, be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the remainder of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. Labor shortages, an increase in labor costs, or the inability to attract qualified associates could harm our business. Our associates are essential to the operation of our restaurants and our ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests. If we are unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant personnel at a reasonable cost, or if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests, our results may be negatively affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages or provide greater benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. Fluctuations in commodity and energy prices and the availability of commodities, including beef, poultry and dairy, could affect our business. A significant component of our costs is related to food commodities, including beef, poultry and dairy products, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, and we are unable to offset the increases with changes in our menu pricing, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, we are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage our reputation and otherwise harm our business. We must purchase energy-related products such as electricity, oil and natural gas for use in each of our restaurants.Our suppliers must purchase gasoline in order to transport food and supplies to us. Our guests purchase energy to heat and cool their homes and fuel their automobiles. When energy prices increase, we incur greater costs to operate our restaurants. Likewise, our guests have lower disposable income and thus may reduce the frequency in which they dine out and/or feel compelled to choose more inexpensive restaurants when eating outside the home. Due to our geographic locations, certain restaurants are subject to climate conditions that could affect operations. Many of our restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Southeast may face harsh weather associated with hurricanes or tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants or may necessitate the closure of our restaurants for a period of time. If guests are unable to visit our restaurants, or if our restaurants are closed as the result of inclement weather, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. 11 Table of Contents Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Restaurant chains such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury caused by food tampering, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to even just one of our restaurants, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand, which could immediately and severely hurt sales and accordingly, revenues and profits. If guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, due to negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect sales. We are subject to health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage our reputation and lower profits. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result, we may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and to rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 