Item 1A. Risk Factors Biglari Holdings and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as “we,” us,” “our,” or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to Biglari Holdings We are dependent on our Chairman and CEO. Our success depends on the services of Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. All major operating, investment, and capital allocation decisions are made for the Company and its subsidiaries by Mr. Biglari. Moreover, certain counterparties have requested and obtained a provision in their agreements with the right to terminate in the event Mr. Biglari ceases to be our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. If for any reason the services of Mr. Biglari were to become unavailable, a material adverse effect on our business could occur. In addition, as described further below, if the Company were to lose the services of Mr. Biglari, the counterparties maintaining certain contracts with the Company may have a right to terminate those contracts. At that time, the Company may owe significant amounts of money to Mr. Biglari pursuant to the terms of a license agreement. Taken as a whole, the losses pertaining to these contracts and the liabilities imposed by the license agreement connected to the loss of Mr. Biglari may materially impact the Company in an adverse manner. Our historical growth rate is not indicative of our future growth. When evaluating our historical growth and prospects for future growth, it is important to consider that while our business philosophy has remained relatively constant our mix of business has changed and will continue to change. Our dynamic business model makes it difficult to assess our prospects for future growth. Restrictions on our access to capital described further below may also adversely affect our ability to execute our plans for future growth. Biglari Holdings’ access to capital is subject to restrictions that may adversely affect its ability to satisfy its cash requirements or implement its growth strategy. We are a holding company and are largely dependent upon dividends and other sources of funds from our subsidiaries in order to meet our needs. Steak n Shake’s credit facility contains restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to Biglari Holdings. In addition, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to Biglari Holdings is regulated by state insurance laws, which limit the amount of, and in certain circumstances may prohibit the payment of, cash dividends. Furthermore, as a result of our substantial investments in The Lion Fund, L.P. and The Lion Fund II, L.P., investment partnerships controlled by Mr. Biglari, our access to capital is restricted by the terms of their respective partnership agreements, as described more fully below. There is also a high likelihood that we will make additional investments in these investment partnerships. Taken together, these restrictions may result in our having insufficient funds to satisfy our cash requirements. As a result, we may need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available. Competition. Each of our operating businesses faces intense competitive pressure within the markets in which they operate. Competition may arise domestically as well as internationally. While we manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results may decline from current levels in the future. We also highlight certain competitive risks in the sections below. Unfavorable domestic and international economic, societal and political conditions could hurt our operating businesses. To the extent that the recovery from the economic recession continues to be slow or the economy worsens for a prolonged period of time, one or more of our significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our restaurant operations depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to credit is restricted or the cost of funding increases, our business could be adversely affected. Our operating businesses face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets. There is no assurance that our international operations will be profitable. Our international operations are subject to all of the risks associated with our domestic operations, as well as a number of additional risks, varying substantially country by country. These include, inter alia, international economic and political conditions, corruption, terrorism, social and ethnic unrest, foreign currency fluctuations, differing cultures and consumer preferences. Our expansion into international markets could also create risks to our brands. -4- Table of Contents In addition, we may become subject to foreign governmental regulations that impact the way we do business with our international franchisees and vendors. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and applicable local law. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business and our financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. We may also become subject to these risks in the international markets in which we operate and in which we plan to expand. Any impairment of our intellectual property or brands, including due to changes in U.S. or foreign intellectual property laws or the absence of effective legal protections or enforcement measures, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. We are or may be from time to time a party to various legal actions, investigations and other proceedings brought by employees, consumers, policyholders, suppliers, shareholders, government agencies or other third parties in connection with matters pertaining to our business, including related to our investment activities. The outcome of such matters is often difficult to assess or quantify and the cost to defend future proceedings may be significant. Even if a claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any negative allegation regarding our Company, our business or our products could adversely affect our reputation. While we believe that the ultimate outcome of routine legal proceedings individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on our financial position, we cannot assure that an adverse outcome on, or reputational damage from, any of these matters would not, in fact, materially impact our business and results of operations for the period when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved. Certain agreements with our Chairman and CEO may deter a change of control or proxy contest. We have entered into a license agreement with Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, under which Mr. Biglari has granted the Company an exclusive license to use his name when connected to the provision of certain products and services, as well as a sublicense agreement with Steak n Shake that, inter alia, grants Steak n Shake the right to use the trademark “Steak n Shake by Biglari.” In the event of a change of control of the Company or Mr. Biglari’s termination without cause or resignation following specified occurrences, including (1) his removal as Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer or (2) his no longer maintaining sole capital allocation authority, Mr. Biglari would be entitled to receive revenue-based royalty payments related to the usage of his name under the terms of the license agreement for a defined period of no less than five years. Revenue-based royalties derived from Steak n Shake’s restaurants (including Company operated and franchised locations), products and brands would be included in calculating these royalty payments, which would thus represent significant liability for the Company. A change of control would also enable franchisees to terminate their franchise agreement with us. In addition, we have an incentive agreement with Mr. Biglari, in which he is entitled to receive performance-based annual incentive payments contingent on the growth of the Company’s adjusted book value in each fiscal year. In the event of a change in control or Mr. Biglari’s termination without cause or resignation following specified occurrences, including (1) his removal as Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer or (2) his no longer maintaining sole capital allocation authority, Mr. Biglari would receive specified payments thereunder. The combination of these provisions along with others referenced (e.g., contracts cancellable if Mr. Biglari is no longer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer) all together could create the prevention of a transaction involving a change of control of the Company or deterrence of a potential proxy contest. -5- Table of Contents The Lion Fund, L.P.’s ownership position in the Company enables it to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. The Lion Fund, L.P., controlled by Mr. Biglari, has the ability to exert significant influence on actions the Company may take in the future that require shareholder approval, including change of control transactions. The Lion Fund, L.P.’s ownership position may conflict with the interests of the Company’s other shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Restaurant Operations Our restaurant operations face intense competition from a wide range of industry participants. The restaurant business is one of the most competitive industries. As there are virtually no barriers to entry into the restaurant business, competitors may include national, regional and local establishments. There may be established competitors with financial and other resources that are greater than the Company’s restaurant operations capabilities. Restaurant businesses compete on the basis of price, menu, food quality, location, personnel and customer service. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and by national, regional, and local economic conditions. The performance of individual restaurants may be impacted by factors such as traffic patterns, demographic trends, severe weather conditions, and competing restaurants. Additional factors that may adversely affect the restaurant industry include, but are not limited to, food and wage inflation, safety, and food-borne illness. Changes in economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our restaurant operations. Our restaurant operations are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the restaurant industry in particular. The restaurant industry has been affected by economic factors, including the deterioration of global, national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The disruptions experienced in the global economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. As a result, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions could adversely impact the availability of financing for our franchisees’ expansions and operations. Our cash flows and financial position could be negatively impacted if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in Steak n Shake’s debt agreements. The Company’s subsidiaries currently maintain debt instruments, including Steak n Shake’s credit agreement, dated as of March 19, 2014, with the lenders party thereto. Covenants in the debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions, including requiring operating subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios and thereby restricting, among other things, their ability to incur additional indebtedness and make distributions to the Company. Their failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could constitute an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result, among other things, in the acceleration of their indebtedness, which could negatively impact our operations and business and may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. In such event, our cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay this indebtedness and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure this debt. In addition, the restrictions contained in these debt instruments could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions or investments. Steak n Shake’s ability to make payments on its credit facility and to fund operations depends on its ability to generate cash, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Steak n Shake may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service this debt or to fund its other liquidity needs. Fluctuations in commodity and energy prices and the availability of commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy, could affect our restaurant business. The cost, availability and quality of ingredients restaurant operations use to prepare their food is subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond their control. A significant component of our restaurant business’ costs is related to food commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy products, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets, and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, our restaurants are dependent upon frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. -6- Table of Contents Adverse weather conditions or losses due to casualties could negatively impact our operating performance. Property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, instances of inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, fire, and other acts of nature can adversely impact sales in several ways. Many of Steak n Shake’s and Western’s restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Southeast may experience hurricanes or tropical storms. Our sales and operating results may be negatively affected by these harsh weather conditions, which could make it more difficult for guests to visit our restaurants, necessitate the closure of restaurants for a period of time or costly repairs due to physical damage, or lead to a shortage of employees resulting from unsafe road conditions or an evacuation of the general population. We are subject to health, employment, environmental, and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation or penalties, damage our reputation, and lower profits. We are subject to various global, federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting our restaurant operations. Changes in existing laws, rules and regulations applicable to us, or increased enforcement by governmental authorities, may require us to incur additional costs and expenses necessary for compliance. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. The development and construction of restaurants is subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use, and environmental regulations. Difficulties in obtaining, or failure to obtain, the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory, and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result, restaurant operations may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of the Steak n Shake and Western franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states, and to rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Further national, state and local government initiatives, such as mandatory health insurance coverage, “living wage” or other proposed increases in minimum wage rates could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Investment Activities Our investment activities are conducted primarily through outside investment partnerships, The Lion Fund, L.P. and The Lion Fund II, L.P., which are controlled by Mr. Biglari. As a result of our sale of Biglari Capital Corp. (“Biglari Capital”), general partner of The Lion Fund, L.P. and The Lion Fund II, L.P. (collectively, the “investment partnerships”), to Mr. Biglari, and the contribution of our investments to these funds in exchange for limited partner interests, our investment activities are conducted mainly through these outside investment partnerships. Under the terms of their partnership agreements, each contribution made by the Company to the investment partnerships is subject to a five-year lock-up period, and any distribution upon our withdrawal of funds will be paid out over a two-year period (and may be paid in-kind rather than in cash, thus increasing the difficulty of liquidating these investments). As a result of these provisions and our consequent inability to access this capital for a defined period, our capital invested in the investment partnerships may be subject to an increased risk of loss of all or a significant portion of value, and we may become unable to meet our capital requirements. There is a high likelihood that we will make additional investments in these investment partnerships in the future. In connection with the sale of Biglari Capital, we also entered into a Shared Services Agreement with Biglari Capital pursuant to which we agreed to provide certain services to Biglari Capital (e.g., use of space at our corporate headquarters) in exchange for a 6% hurdle rate for the Company and its subsidiaries (as compared to a 5% hurdle rate for all other limited partners), above which Biglari Capital is entitled to receive an incentive reallocation in its capacity as general partner of the investment partnerships. There can be no assurance that the benefit, if any, we may realize from this increased hurdle rate will enable us to recoup our costs incurred in performing services for Biglari Capital under the Shared Services Agreement. -7- Table of Contents The incentive allocation to which Mr. Biglari, as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Biglari Capital, general partner of the investment partnerships, is entitled under the terms of the respective partnership agreements is equal to 25% of the net profits allocated to the limited partners in excess of their applicable hurdle rate. Unlike Mr. Biglari’s compensation under his incentive agreement with the Company, which may not exceed $10 million for any one-year performance period, the incentive allocation concerning investments held by the investment partnerships is not subject to any such limitation. Investments made by the Company in the investment partnerships may lead to significant increases in this compensation to Mr. Biglari. Our investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to a loss in value. Our investments are predominantly held through the investment partnerships, which generally invest in common stocks. These investments are largely concentrated in the common stock of one investee, Cracker Barrel Old Country Store, Inc. A significant decline in the major values of these investments may produce a large decrease in our consolidated shareholders’ equity and can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated book value per share and earnings. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in entities in which we do not have a controlling interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company, which would require us to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. To avoid becoming and registering as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions accordingly. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. Risks Relating to Our Insurance Business Our success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to charge adequate rates to policyholders. Our results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for risks assumed. A primary role of the pricing function is to ensure that rates are adequate to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses, and underwriting expenses, and earning a profit. Our insurance business is vulnerable to significant catastrophic property loss, which could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance business faces a significant risk of loss in the ordinary course of its business for property damage resulting from natural disasters, man-made catastrophes and other catastrophic events. These events typically increase the frequency and severity of commercial property claims. Because catastrophic loss events are by their nature unpredictable, historical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations, and the occurrence of claims from catastrophic events may result in significant volatility in our insurance business’ financial condition and results of operations from period to period. We attempt to manage our exposure to these events through reinsurance programs, although there is no assurance we will be successful in doing so. -8- Table of Contents Inability to obtain reinsurance or to collect ceded losses and loss adjustment expenses could adversely affect our insurance business’s ability to write new policies. Our insurance business’s purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. Under these ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of our exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. Thus, any decrease in the amount of this reinsurance will increase the risk of loss. If our insurance business is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, it may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and may reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. Ceded reinsurance does not discharge our insurance business’s direct obligations under the policies it writes. Our insurance business remains liable to policyholders even if it is unable to obtain recoveries under which it believes it is entitled to receive under the reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from the reinsurers until claims are paid. Our insurance business is subject to extensive existing state, local and foreign governmental regulations that restrict its ability to do business and generate revenues. Our insurance business is subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which it operates. These regulations may relate to, among other things, the types of business that can be written, the rates that can be charged for coverage, the level of capital and reserves that must be maintained, and restrictions on the types and size of investments that can be placed. Regulations may also restrict the timing and amount of dividend payments. Accordingly, existing or new regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory actions imposing restrictions on our insurance business may adversely impact its results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Media Business Our media business faces significant competition from other magazine publishers and new forms of media, including digital media, and as a result our media business may not be able to improve its operating results. Our media business competes principally with other magazine publishers. The proliferation of choices available to consumers for information and entertainment has resulted in audience fragmentation and has negatively impacted overall consumer demand for print magazines and intensified competition with other magazine publishers for share of print magazine readership. Our media business also competes with digital publishers and other forms of media. This competition has intensified as a result of the growing popularity of mobile devices and the shift in preference of some consumers from print media to digital media for the delivery and consumption of content. Our media business derives a significant percentage of its revenues from advertising. Competition among print magazine and digital publishers for advertising is primarily based on the circulation and readership of magazines and the number of visitors to websites, respectively, and the demographics of customers, advertising rates, plus the effectiveness of advertising sales teams. The proliferation of new platforms available to advertisers, combined with continuing competition from print platforms, has impacted both the amount of advertising our media business is able to sell as well as the rates advertisers are willing to pay. Our media business’ ability to compete successfully for advertising also depends on its ability to prove the value of its advertising. Our pursuit of licensing opportunities for the Maxim brand may prove to be unsuccessful. The transformation of the business depends to a significant degree upon its ability to develop new licensing agreements to expand the Maxim brand. However, these licensing efforts may be unsuccessful. We may be unable to secure favorable terms for future licensing arrangements, which could lead to, among other things, disputes with licensing partners that hinder our ability to grow the Maxim brand. Future licensing partners may also fail to honor their contractual obligations or take other actions that can diminish the value of the Maxim brand. Disputes could also arise that prevent or delay our ability to collect licensing revenues under these arrangements. If any of these developments occur or our licensing efforts are otherwise not successful, the value and recognition of the Maxim brand, as well as the prospects of our media business, could be materially, adversely affected. -9- Table of Contents Our media business is exposed to risks associated with weak economic conditions. Because magazines are generally discretionary purchases for consumers, circulation revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. Certain economic conditions such as general economic downturns, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, interest rates, gasoline and other energy prices, or declining consumer confidence, may negatively impact consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending patterns away from discretionary items will likely result in reduced demand for our media business’s magazines and may also require us to incur increased operating expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 