ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks, or additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you may lose part or all of your investment. This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures, or other financial items, and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations regarding future events and use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “may,” and other similar terminology. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial, and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, many beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncer tainties discussed below. Accordingly, such forward-looking statements do not purport to be predictions of future events or circumstances and may not be realized. We undertake no obliga tion to publicly update or revise them, except as may be required by law. We are dependent on our Chairman and CEO. We believe that our success depends in large part on the services of Sardar Biglari, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Biglari could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its subsidiary, Steak n Shake Operations, Inc. Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for us and our subsidiaries by Mr. Biglari. If for any reason the services of Mr. Biglari were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, since he is singularly responsible for business and investment activities. Failure to complete our proposed merger with Western Sizzlin Corporation could negatively impact the stock price, future business, and financial results of the Company. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of the Company may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, the Company will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • the current market price of the Company’s common stock may reflect a market assump tion that the merger will occur and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception of the Company by equity investors and result in a decline in the market price of the common stock of the Company; • the Company will be required to pay some or all transaction costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed; and • matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by the Company’s management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as a separate company. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS We face continually increasing competition in the restaurant industry for guests, staff, locations, and new products, which may negatively impact operating performance. Our restaurant business is subject to intense competition with respect to prices, services, loca tions, qualified management personnel, and quality of food. We compete with other food service operations, with locally-owned restaurants, and with other national and regional restaurant chains that offer the same or similar types of services and products. Some of our competitors may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are located. Changes in con sumer tastes, changes in national, regional, or local economic conditions, changes in demographic trends, and changes in the numbers of competing restaurants are all factors that impact the sales and profitability of the restaurant business. There is active competition for management personnel. In addition, such factors as inflation, increased food, labor, equipment, fixture, and benefit costs, as well as difficulty in attracting qualified management and hourly employees may adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our restaurant business. The restaurant industry has been affected by current economic factors, including the deteriora tion of national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and volatil ity in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. As a result, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. The disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing for Steak n Shake’s franchisees’ expansions and operations, and could impact its vendors’ ability to meet supply requirements. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disrup tions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Our cash flows and financial position could be negatively impacted if Steak n Shake is unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants to our debt agreements. Steak n Shake currently maintains a debt instrument which includes restrictions and covenants that require quarterly compliance. If Steak n Shake fails to meet those restrictions and cov enants our operations and business may be negatively impacted. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our long-lived assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Long-lived assets, including restaurant sites, leasehold improvements, other fixed assets, and amortized intangible assets are reviewed when indicators of impairment are present. Expected cash flows associated with an asset are the key factor in determining the recoverability of the asset. Identifiable cash flows are generally measured at the restaurant level. The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operat ing performance. Management’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to our business model or changes in operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Judgments made by management related to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in economic conditions and changes in operating performance. As the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of long-lived assets are assessed, these factors could cause us to realize a material impairment charge. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fluctuations in commodity and energy prices and the availability of commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy, could affect our restaurant business. A significant component of Steak n Shake’s costs is related to food commodities, including beef, fried products, poultry, and dairy products, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets, and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these food commodities, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, Steak n Shake restaurants are dependent upon frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. The inability of Steak n Shake’s franchisees to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our financial performance. Steak n Shake operates a franchise program and collects royalties, and marketing and service fees from the franchisees. The ability of franchisees to generate profits impacts our overall profitability. Growth within the existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to Steak n Shake’s company-owned restaurants, and sometimes the challenges of opening profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for Steak n Shake’s franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements. In addition, Steak n Shake’s continued growth is also partially dependent upon our ability to find and retain qualified franchisees in new markets, which may include markets in which the Steak n Shake brand is less well known. Furthermore, the loss of any of Steak n Shake’s fran chisees due to financial concerns and/or operational inefficiencies could impact Steak n Shake’s profitability and brand. Franchisees are required to operate their restaurants according to Steak n Shake’s guidelines. Steak n Shake provides training opportunities to franchise operators to fully integrate them into Steak n Shake’s operating strategy. However, since Steak n Shake does not have control over these restaurants, it cannot give assurance that there will not be differences in product quality or that there will be adherence to all of its guidelines at these franchised restaurants. In order to mitigate these risks, Steak n Shake requires that franchisees focus on the quality of their opera tions, and it expects full compliance with its standards. Due to Steak n Shake’s smaller restaurant base and geographic concentration, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by the negative performance of, or the decision to close, a small number of restaurants. Steak n Shake’s restaurant base is smaller and less geographically diverse than many other restaurant chains. Accordingly, poor operating results in one or more markets or the decision to close even a relatively small number of underperforming restaurants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations, or cash flows. Changes in guest preferences for casual dining styles or menu items could adversely affect our financial performance. Changing guest preferences, tastes, and dietary habits can adversely impact our restaurant business and financial performance. Steak n Shake offers a large variety of entrees, side dishes, and desserts, and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our product offerings and casual style of dining. A change in guest preferences away from this dining style or Steak n Shake’s offerings in favor of other dining styles or offerings may have an adverse effect on our business. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS The inability to attract qualified associates, an increase in labor costs, or labor shortages could harm Steak n Shake’s business. Steak n Shake’s associates are essential to the operation of its restaurants and its ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our guests. If Steak n Shake is unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant personnel at a reasonable cost, or if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience to the guests, our results may be negatively affected. Many Steak n Shake associates are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Any increases in the minimum wage rates may significantly increase our restaurant operating costs. In addition, since Steak n Shake’s business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial perfor mance. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages or provide greater benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. Adverse weather conditions or losses due to casualties could negatively impact our operating performance. Although Steak n Shake maintains, and requires franchisees to maintain, property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, instances of inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, fire, and other acts of nature can adversely impact sales in several ways. Many of Steak n Shake’s restaurants are located in the Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States. During the first and second fiscal quarters, restau rants in the Midwest may face harsh winter weather conditions. During the first and fourth fiscal quarters, restaurants in the Southeast may experience hurricanes or tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for guests to visit Steak n Shake’s restau rants, or may necessitate the closure of Steak n Shake restaurants for a period of time due to physical damage or a shortage of employees resulting from unsafe road conditions or an evacu ation of the general population. If guests are unable to visit Steak n Shake restaurants, or if the restaurants are closed as the result of inclement weather, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Restaurant chains such as Steak n Shake can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury caused by food tampering, adverse health effects (including obesity), or other concerns stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, given Steak n Shake’s geographic concentration, unfavorable publicity relating to just one restaurant could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand, which could immediately and severely damage sales, and accordingly, profits. If guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, Steak n Shake could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restau rants of competitors, could, due to negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect sales. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities. Steak n Shake and SIC own the land and building or lease the land and/or the building for the Steak n Shake restaurants. Accordingly, they are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of their assets could decrease, and their costs could increase because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, supply or demand for the use of restaurants in an area, or liabilities for environmental conditions. Generally the leases cannot be canceled. If Steak n Shake decides to close an under performing existing store, or if it decides not to open a planned future store, they may, nonetheless, be committed to perform their obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the remainder of the lease term. In addition, as their leases expire, they may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause them to close stores in desirable locations. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to health, employment, environmental, and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose us to litigation, damage our reputation, and lower profits. We are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting our business. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments setting standards for health, food preparation, sanitation, and safety; federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, child labor, tip credits, and citizenship requirements); federal and state laws prohibiting dis crimination; and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and our reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to our reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. The development and construction of restaurants is subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use, and environmental regulations. Difficulties in obtaining, or failure to obtain, the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory, and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. As a result, Steak n Shake may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of the Steak n Shake franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states, and to rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect our operations, particularly Steak n Shake’s relationship with franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on the continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 