Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, operating results and financial condition are subject to particular risks in certain regions of the world. We may experience an operating loss in one or more regions of the world for one or more periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Moreover, overcapacity, which often leads to lower prices, exists in a number of the regions in which we operate and may persist even if demand grows. Our ability to manage such operational fluctuations and to maintain adequate long-term strategies in the face of such developments will be critical to our continued growth and profitability. There can be no assurance that the company’s business acquisitions will be successfully integrated into the acquiring company. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report for details of acquisitions made during the three years ended December 31, 2013.) While we have what we believe to be well designed integration plans, if we cannot successfully integrate the acquired operations with those of Ball, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. The integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: · demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition; · the diversion of management’s attention from the management of existing operations to the integration of the acquired operations; · difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; · difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; · expenses related to any undisclosed or potential liabilities; and · retention of major customers and suppliers. We may not be able to achieve potential synergies or maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each business had achieved or might achieve separately. The successful integration of the acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage those operations, realize revenue opportunities and, to some degree, eliminate redundant and excess costs. 6 Table of Contents The loss of a key customer, or a reduction in its requirements, could have a significant negative impact on our sales. We sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major beverage, packaged food, personal care and household product companies, some of which operate in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. Although the majority of our customer contracts are long-term, these contracts, unless they are renewed, expire in accordance with their respective terms and are terminable under certain circumstances, such as our failure to meet quality, volume or market pricing requirements. Because we depend on relatively few major customers, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of any of these customers, a reduction in the purchasing levels of these customers, a strike or work stoppage by a significant number of these customers’ employees or an adverse change in the terms of the supply agreements with these customers. The primary customers for our aerospace segment are U.S. government agencies or their prime contractors. Our contracts with these customers are subject to several risks, including funding cuts and delays, technical uncertainties, budget changes, competitive activity and changes in scope. We face competitive risks from many sources that may negatively impact our profitability. Competition within the packaging and aerospace industries is intense. Increases in productivity, combined with existing or potential surplus capacity in the industry, have maintained competitive pricing pressures. The principal methods of competition in the general packaging industry are price, innovation and sustainability, service and quality. In the aerospace industry they are technical capability, cost and schedule. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and some may currently have significant excess capacity. Our current or potential competitors may offer products at a lower price or products that are deemed superior to ours. The global economic environment has resulted in reductions in demand for our products in some instances, which, in turn, could increase these competitive pressures. We are subject to competition from alternative products, which could result in lower profits and reduced cash flows. Our metal packaging products are subject to significant competition from substitute products, particularly plastic carbonated soft drink bottles made from PET, single serve beer bottles and other food and beverage containers made of glass, cardboard or other materials. Competition from plastic carbonated soft drink bottles is particularly intense in the U.S., Europe and the PRC. Certain of our aerospace products are also subject to competition from alternative products and solutions. There can be no assurance that our products will successfully compete against alternative products, which could result in a reduction in our profits or cash flow. Our packaging businesses have a narrow product range, and our business would suffer if usage of our products decreased or if decreases occur in the demand for the beverages, food and other goods filled in our products. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 71 percent of our consolidated net sales were from the sale of metal beverage containers, and we expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues and cash flows from the sale of metal beverage containers. Our business would suffer if the use of metal beverage containers decreased. Accordingly, broad acceptance by consumers of aluminum and steel containers for a wide variety of beverages is critical to our future success. If demand for glass and PET bottles increases relative to metal containers, the demand for aluminum and steel containers does not develop as expected or declines in consumption of carbonated soft drinks in North America continue, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in laws and governmental regulations may adversely affect our business and operations. We and our customers and suppliers are subject to various federal, state and provincial laws and regulations, which are increasing in number and complexity. Each of our, and their, facilities is subject to federal, state, provincial and local licensing and regulation by health, environmental, workplace safety and other agencies in multiple jurisdictions. Requirements of worldwide governmental authorities with respect to manufacturing, manufacturing facility locations within the jurisdiction, product content and safety, climate change, workplace safety and health, environmental, expropriation of assets and other standards could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and the ability of our customers and suppliers to manufacture and sell their products. In addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly numerous and complex federal, state, country and provincial laws and regulations. 7 Table of Contents Enacted regulatory developments regarding the reporting and use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free materials, and we cannot give assurance that we will be able to obtain such products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all materials used in the products that we sell. The compliance and reporting aspects of these regulations may result in incremental costs to the company. While deposit systems and other container-related legislation have been adopted in some jurisdictions, similar legislation has been defeated in public referenda and legislative bodies in many others. We anticipate that continuing efforts will be made to consider and adopt such legislation in the future. The packages we produce are widely used and perform well in U.S. states, Canadian provinces and European countries that have deposit systems, as well as in other countries world-wide. Significant environmental, employment-related and other legislation and regulatory requirements exist and are also evolving. The compliance costs associated with current and proposed laws and potential regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could lead to litigation or governmental action, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks resulting from broader geographic operations. We derived approximately 40 percent of our consolidated net sales from outside of the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2013. The sizeable scope of operations outside of the U.S. may lead to more volatile financial results and make it more difficult for us to manage our business. Reasons for this include, but are not limited to, the following: · political and economic instability; · governments’ restrictive trade policies; · the imposition or rescission of duties, taxes or government royalties; · exchange rate risks; · difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; and · the geographic, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world. Any of these factors, many of which are also present in the U.S., could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. A portion of Ball’s operations, including assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses, have been denominated in various transaction currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and we expect such operations will continue to be so denominated. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of these operations has varied, and will continue to vary, with exchange rate fluctuations. A decrease in the value of the various currencies compared to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from these operations and the value of their net assets when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. We manage our exposure to currency fluctuations, particularly our exposure to fluctuations in the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate, in order to attempt to mitigate the effect of cash flow and earnings volatility associated with exchange rate changes. We primarily use forward contracts and options to manage our currency exposures and, as a result, we experience gains and losses on these derivative positions offset, in part, by the impact of currency fluctuations on existing assets and liabilities. Our inability to properly manage our exposure to currency fluctuations could materially impact our results. If we fail to retain key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our key objectives. We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our experienced management team. Unforeseen losses of key members of our management team without appropriate succession and/or compensation planning could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet our objectives. 8 Table of Contents Decreases in our ability to apply new technology and know-how may affect our competitiveness. Our success depends partially on our ability to improve production processes and services. We must also introduce new products and services to meet changing customer needs. If we are unable to implement better production processes or to develop new products through research and development or licensing of new technology, we may not be able to remain competitive with other manufacturers. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Adverse weather and climate changes may result in lower sales. We manufacture packaging products primarily for beverages and foods. Unseasonably cool weather can reduce demand for certain beverages packaged in our containers. In addition, poor weather conditions or changes in climate that reduce crop yields of fruits and vegetables can adversely affect demand for our food containers. Climate change could have various effects on the demand for our products in different regions around the world. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the supply and price of raw materials. We purchase aluminum, steel and other raw materials and packaging supplies from several sources. While all such materials are available from independent suppliers, raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price and availability attributable to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, commodity price fluctuations (particularly aluminum on the London Metal Exchange), the demand by other industries for the same raw materials and the availability of complementary and substitute materials. Although we enter into commodities purchase agreements from time to time and sometimes use derivative instruments to seek to manage our risk, we cannot ensure that our current suppliers of raw materials will be able to supply us with sufficient quantities at reasonable prices. Economic and financial factors could impact our suppliers, thereby causing supply shortages. Increases in raw material costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the Americas, Europe and Asia, some contracts do not allow us to pass along increased raw material costs and we generally use derivative agreements to seek to manage this risk. Our hedging procedures may be insufficient and our results could be materially impacted if costs of materials increase. Due to the fixed price contracts and derivative activities, while increasing raw material costs may not impact our near-term profitability, increased prices could decrease our sales volume over time. Prolonged work stoppages at facilities with union employees could jeopardize our financial position. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 40 percent of our North American packaging facility employees and approximately 75 percent of our European employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These collective bargaining agreements have staggered expirations during the next several years. Although we consider our employee relations to be generally good, a prolonged work stoppage or strike at any facility with union employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot ensure that upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any such new agreements will be on terms satisfactory to us. Our aerospace and technologies segment is subject to certain risks specific to that business. In our aerospace business, U.S. government contracts are subject to reduction or modification in the event of changes in requirements, and the government may also terminate contracts at its convenience pursuant to standard termination provisions. In such instances, Ball may be entitled to reimbursement for allowable cost and profits on authorized work that has been performed through the date of termination. In addition, budgetary constraints may result in further reductions to projected spending levels by the U.S. government. In particular, government expenditures are subject to the potential for automatic reductions, generally referred to as “sequestration.” Sequestration may occur in any given year, resulting in significant additional reductions to spending by various U.S government defense and aerospace agencies on both existing and new contracts, as well as the disruption of ongoing programs. Even if sequestration does not occur, we expect that budgetary constraints and ongoing concerns regarding the U.S. national debt will continue to place downward pressure on agency spending levels. Due to these and other factors, overall spending on various programs could decline, which could result in significant reductions to revenue, cash flows, net earnings and backlog primarily in our aerospace and technologies segment. 9 Table of Contents We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs in our aerospace business, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. We account for sales and profits on some long-term contracts in our aerospace business in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cumulative catch-up method to account for updates in estimates. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the use of various estimating techniques to project revenues and costs at completion and various assumptions and projections relative to the outcome of future events, including the quantity and timing of product deliveries, future labor performance and rates, and material and overhead costs. These assumptions involve various levels of expected performance improvements. Under the cumulative catch-up method, the impact of updates in our estimates related to units shipped to date is recognized immediately. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimates described above, it is likely that we could record materially different amounts if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances or estimates were to change. Accordingly, updates in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may materially affect our future financial performance. Our backlog includes both cost-type and fixed-price contracts. Cost-type contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Our earnings and margins may vary depending on the types of government contracts undertaken, the nature of the work performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and their impact on our ability to receive fees. As a U.S. government contractor, we could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. government audit or investigation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies, such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). These agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review under the new DoD Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) effective May 18, 2011, are accounting and billing systems, purchasing systems, estimating systems, material management and accounting systems and earned value management systems. Any costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. If such actions were to result in suspension or debarment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to substantial environmental remediation and compliance costs. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions relating to environmental hazards, such as emissions to air, discharges to water, the handling and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes and the cleanup of hazardous substances. We have been designated, along with numerous other companies, as a potentially responsible party for the cleanup of several hazardous waste sites. Based on available information, we do not believe that any costs incurred in connection with such sites will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position. There is increased focus on the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental issues worldwide. Our business faces the potential of increased regulation on some of the raw materials utilized in our packaging operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions relating to some of the raw materials, such as epoxy-based coatings utilized in our container making process. Epoxy-based coatings may contain Bisphenol-A (BPA). Scientific evidence evaluated by regulatory agencies in the United States, Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand has consistently shown these coatings to be safe for food contact at current levels, and these regulatory agencies have stated that human exposure to BPA from epoxy-based container coatings is well below safe exposure limits set by government bodies worldwide. A significant change in these regulatory agency statements or other adverse information concerning BPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Ball recognizes that significant interest exists in non epoxy-based coatings, and we have been proactively working with coatings suppliers and our customers to evaluate alternatives to current coatings. 10 Table of Contents Net earnings and net worth could be materially affected by an impairment of goodwill. We have a significant amount of goodwill recorded on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. We are required at least annually to test the recoverability of goodwill. The recoverability test of goodwill is based on the current fair value of our identified reporting units. Fair value measurement requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows and discount rates. If general market conditions deteriorate in portions of our business, we could experience a significant decline in the fair value of reporting units. This decline could lead to an impairment of all or a significant portion of the goodwill balance, which could materially affect our U.S. GAAP net earnings and net worth. If the investments in Ball’s pension plans, or in the multi-employer pension plans in which Ball participates, do not perform as expected, we may have to contribute additional amounts to the plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses and fund growth opportunities. Ball maintains defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its North American and United Kingdom employees, which are funded based on certain actuarial assumptions. The plans’ assets consist primarily of common stocks, fixed income securities and, in the U.S., alternative investments. Market declines, longevity increases or legislative changes, such as the Pension Protection Act in the U.S., could result in a prospective decrease in our available cash flow and net earnings over time, and the recognition of an increase in our pension obligations could result in a reduction to our shareholders’ equity. Additional risks exist related to the company’s participation in multi-employer pension plans. Assets contributed to a multi-employer pension plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. If a participating employer in a multi-employer pension plan stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participants. This could result in increases to our contributions to the plans as well as pension expense. Restricted access to capital markets could adversely affect our short-term liquidity and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes issued pursuant to our bond indentures. On December 31, 2013, we had total debt of $3.6 billion and unused committed credit lines of approximately $887 million. A reduction in global market liquidity could: · restrict our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including the credit risks stemming from the economic environment; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; and · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or refinance debt maturities. If market interest rates increase, our variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow. While we sometimes enter into agreements limiting our exposure, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. The global credit, financial and economic environment could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The overall credit, financial and economic environment could have significant negative effects on our operations, including the following: · the creditworthiness of customers, suppliers and counterparties could deteriorate resulting in a financial loss or a disruption in our supply of raw materials; · volatile market performance could affect the fair value of our pension assets, potentially requiring us to make significant additional contributions to our defined benefit plans to maintain prescribed funding levels; · a significant weakening of our financial position or operating results could result in noncompliance with our debt covenants; and · reduced cash flow from our operations could adversely affect our ability to execute our long-term strategy to increase liquidity, reduce debt, repurchase our stock and invest in our businesses. 11 Table of Contents Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations could materially impact our reported results. U.S. GAAP and SEC accounting and reporting changes are common and have become more frequent and significant over the past several years. Furthermore, the U.S. and international accounting standard setters are in the process of jointly converging several key accounting standards. These changes could have significant effects on our reported results when compared to prior periods and other companies and may even require us to retrospectively adjust prior periods. Additionally, material changes to the presentation of transactions in the consolidated financial statements could impact key ratios that analysts and credit rating agencies use to rate Ball and ultimately our ability to access the credit markets in an efficient manner. Increased information technology (IT) security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no matters required to be reported under this item. 