ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and our other reports filed with the SEC, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Exelixis. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Financial Results If additional capital is not available to us, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts and we may breach our financial covenants. We will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development efforts; and • commercialize our product candidates, if any such candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. As of December 31, 2005, we had $210.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, which includes restricted cash and investments of $12.7 million and investments held by SEI of $34.0 million. We currently anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, investments held by SEI, additional committed financing from SEI and other funding that we expect to receive from collaborators, which includes a moderate level of business development activity, will enable us to maintain our operations for at least the next 12 months. This estimate includes the scheduled repayment of a $30.0 million convertible promissory note to Protein Design Labs, Inc. due in May 2006. Our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors, including: • the level of payments received under collaborative agreements, licensing agreements and other arrangements; • the progress and scope of our collaborative and independent clinical trials and other research and development projects; • the timing and progress of the clinical development of our outlicensed product candidates XL647, XL999 and XL784, which will determine if and when we exercise our options to reacquire these product candidates; • future clinical trial results; • our need to expand our product and clinical development efforts; • our ability to share the costs of our clinical development efforts with third parties; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the cost of establishing clinical and research supplies of our product candidates; • our ability to remain in compliance with, or amend or cause to be waived, financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; 21 Table of Contents • the cost of any acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments relating to any such transactions; and • the cost and timing of establishing or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. One or more of these factors or changes to our current operating plan may require us to consume available capital resources significantly sooner than we expect. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital when we need it, on favorable terms or at all. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our existing stockholders, and debt-financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that would restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are unfavorable to our stockholders or us. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. If we raise additional funds through collaboration arrangements with third parties, it will be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or we may be required to grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. In addition, we will have to obtain additional funding in order to stay in compliance with financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties. For example, as part of our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, we entered into a loan and security agreement, dated October 28, 2002, which, as amended, contains financial covenants pursuant to which our working capital (the amount by which our current assets exceed our current liabilities as defined by the agreement) must not be less than $25.0 million and our cash and investments (total cash, cash equivalents and investments as defined by the agreement, which excludes restricted cash and investments) must not be less than $50.0 million. As of December 31, 2005, our working capital was $101.6 million and our cash and investments were $210.5 million, which included restricted cash and investments of $12.7 million and investments held by SEI of $34.0 million. If we were to default on the financial covenants under the loan and security agreement, GlaxoSmithKline may, among other remedies, declare immediately due and payable all obligations under the loan and security agreement. Outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the loan and security agreement totaled $91.8 million at December 31, 2005. If we cannot raise additional capital in order to remain in compliance with our financial covenants or if we are unable to renegotiate such covenants and the lender exercises its remedies under the agreement, we would not be able to operate under our current operating plan. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including a net loss of $84.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. As of that date, we had an accumulated deficit of $603.8 million. We expect these losses to continue and anticipate negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. We have not yet completed the development, including obtaining regulatory approval, of any of our pharmaceutical product candidates and, consequently, have not generated revenues from the sale of pharmaceutical products. Except for revenues associated with the transgenic mouse business of our German subsidiary, Artemis, our only revenues to date are license revenues and revenues under contracts with our partners. The size of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our license and contract revenues and on the level of our expenses. These losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Our research and development expenditures and general and administrative expenses have exceeded our revenues to date, and we expect to spend significant additional amounts to fund research and development in order to enhance our technologies and undertake product development. We currently have numerous product candidates in various stages of clinical development and we anticipate filing IND applications for additional product candidates within the next 12 months. As a result, we expect that our operations will continue to increase, and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve profitability. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do increase our revenues and achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. 22 Table of Contents We have licensed the intellectual property, including commercialization rights, to our product candidates XL647, XL999 and XL784 to SEI and will not receive any future royalties or revenues with respect to these product candidates unless we exercise our options to acquire one or all of these product candidates in the future. We may not have the financial resources to exercise these options or sufficient clinical data in order to determine whether we should exercise these options. We have licensed to SEI our intellectual property rights, including commercialization rights, to our product candidates XL647, XL999 and XL784 in exchange for SEI’s investment of up to $80.0 million to advance the clinical development of XL647, XL999 and XL784. In exchange for this investment and for five-year warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, we received an exclusive purchase option to acquire all of the equity of SEI, thereby allowing us to reacquire XL647, XL999 and XL784. We may, at our sole discretion, exercise this purchase option at any time beginning on June 9, 2006 and ending on the earlier of June 9, 2009 or the 90th day after the date that SEI provides us with financial statements showing cash and cash equivalents of less than $5.0 million. The purchase option exercise price is equal to the sum of: (i) the total amount of capital invested in SEI by its investors and (ii) an amount equal to 25% per year on such funded capital, subject to specified adjustments. The exercise price will also be subject to a premium if we exercise the purchase option between June 9, 2006 and December 11, 2006. The option exercise price may be paid in cash or a combination of cash and our common stock, at our sole discretion, provided that the common stock portion may not exceed 33% of the purchase option exercise price. We have also received an exclusive program option from SEI allowing us under certain conditions to separately reacquire from SEI one of the three product candidates licensed to SEI. The program option is exercisable at any time, at our sole discretion, during a period beginning on June 9, 2005 and ending on December 9, 2006 at an exercise price equal to that portion of the funded capital expended on the development of the applicable product candidate being repurchased, plus a specified premium. The program option exercise price may be paid in cash only. If we elect to exercise either one of the options, we will be required to make a substantial cash payment and/or to issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or enter into a financing arrangement or license arrangement with one or more third parties, or some combination of the foregoing. A payment in cash would reduce our capital resources. A payment in shares of our common stock could result in dilution to our stockholders at that time. Other financing or licensing alternatives may be expensive or impossible to obtain. If we do not exercise the purchase options prior to their expiration, our rights in and to SEI with respect to XL647, XL999 and XL784 will terminate. We may not have the financial resources to exercise the options, which may result in our loss of these rights. Additionally, we may not have sufficient clinical data in order to determine whether we should exercise the options. In addition, under our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, GlaxoSmithKline may continue to select at proof-of-concept for further development one or more of the product candidates licensed to SEI, in which case we would have to repurchase the selected candidate or candidates through the exercise of our purchase option or program option. If, after receiving any selection milestones from GlaxoSmithKline, we do not have sufficient resources to exercise the purchase option or program option following a product candidate selection by GlaxoSmithKline, we could be in breach of our collaboration agreement with GlaxoSmithKline. In the event of such breach, GlaxoSmithKline could terminate the collaboration and, among other remedies, declare all amounts under our loan facility with GlaxoSmithKline immediately due and payable, which would harm our business. Risks Related to Development of Product Candidates Clinical testing of our product candidates is a lengthy, costly and uncertain process and may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that our product candidates are ineffective or have unacceptable toxicity or other side effects that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval. 23 Table of Contents The results of preliminary studies do not necessarily predict clinical or commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results observed in earlier-stage trials or preliminary studies. Although we have established timelines for manufacturing and clinical development based on existing knowledge of our compounds in development and industry metrics, we may not be able to meet those timelines. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical testing that could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates, including: • our product candidates may not prove to be efficacious or may cause harmful side effects; • negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or to abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; • patient registration or enrollment in our clinical testing may be lower than we anticipate, resulting in the delay or cancellation of clinical testing; and • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize, delay, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or their determination that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. If any of these events were to occur and, as a result, we were to have significant delays in or termination of our clinical testing, our expenses could increase and our ability to generate revenue from the affected product candidates could be impaired, which would adversely impact our financial results. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and may not be able to rapidly or effectively continue the further development of our compounds or meet current or future requirements identified based on our discussions with the FDA. We do not know whether our planned clinical trials will begin on time, will be completed on schedule, or at all, will be sufficient for registration of these compounds or will result in approvable products. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a product candidate. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of factors relating to the clinical trial, including, among others: • the number of patients that ultimately participate in the clinical trial; • the duration of patient follow-up that is appropriate in view of the results; • the number of clinical sites included in the trials; and • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects. Our research and clinical testing may be delayed or abandoned if we or our competitors subsequently discover other compounds that we believe show significantly improved safety or efficacy compared to our product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues, cause us to incur additional expense and cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties We depend on our exclusive licensee, Helsinn, for the completion of the XL119 clinical program and the commercialization of XL119. Under our exclusive license agreement with Helsinn, Helsinn is responsible for all aspects of clinical development of XL119. If XL119 receives regulatory approval, Helsinn will be responsible for the marketing and sale of the commercial product worldwide, unless we reaquire the commercialization rights for North America. 24 Table of Contents Because Helsinn is responsible for these functions, we have no control over the development schedule or, if XL119 receives regulatory approval, the marketing plan for XL119. If the clinical trials for XL119 are not successful, XL119 will not be commercialized. Moreover, beginning June 10, 2006, Helsinn may relinquish all rights and the license granted to it under the license agreement and thereby terminate the license agreement on at least six months’ prior written notice, if in Helsinn’s reasonable business judgment based on scientific or economic evidence, it is impossible for Helsinn to carry out further development or marketing of XL119. If the rights to develop and market XL119 revert to us, we will have to fund the clinical programs for XL119 on our own, seek a strategic partner to fund the further development, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, or outlicense or abandon XL119. Our reliance on Helsinn poses a number of risks, including the following: • if Helsinn fails to successfully advance XL119 in clinical development or fails to obtain regulatory approvals for XL119, we will not be able to generate revenue from milestones or the commercialization of XL119; • we cannot control whether Helsinn will devote sufficient resources to the clinical program and, if XL119 is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, the marketing plan for the commercialization of the drug product in countries where we do not hold commercialization rights; • although we have no history of royalty payment disputes, even if XL119 is approved and commercialized, disputes may arise in the future with respect to the calculation of royalty payments based on net sales related to XL119; and • if Helsinn perceives that the market opportunity for XL119 or its profit margin from the sale of XL119 is too small to justify commercialization, the interests and motivations of Helsinn may not be, or may not remain, aligned with ours. If we are unable to deliver certain clinical trial materials to Helsinn for the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial of XL119, milestone payments under our license agreement with Helsinn would be reduced and Helsinn could under certain conditions terminate the license agreement or continue the agreement at reduced royalty rates. Under our license agreement with Helsinn, we are required to supply to Helsinn certain clinical trial materials (at Helsinn’s expense) by April 30, 2006 for the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials of XL119. While we expect that we will be able to obtain clinical trial materials when necessary to satisfy our obligation to deliver the required materials to Helsinn, we cannot be certain that we will be able to supply the materials in a timely manner. Our inability to obtain clinical trial materials would result in reduced milestone payments under the license agreement. Furthermore, if we fail to supply these materials and such failure prevents Helsinn from enrolling additional patients or from maintaining the then-current enrollment in the Phase 3 trials, then Helsinn may terminate the license agreement or elect to continue the agreement at a reduced royalty rate. If the license agreement is terminated, the rights to develop and market XL119 would revert to us and we would have to fund the clinical development of XL119 on our own. If Helsinn chooses to continue the agreement at a reduced royalty rate, potential future royalty payments by Helsinn would be reduced. Disagreements between SEI and us regarding the development of our product candidates XL647, XL999 and XL784 may cause significant delays and other impediments in the development of these product candidates, which could negatively affect the value of these product candidates. We have licensed to SEI our intellectual property rights, including commercialization rights, to our product candidates XL647, XL999 and XL784 in exchange for SEI’s investment of up to $80.0 million to advance the clinical development of XL647, XL999 and XL784. We are responsible for developing XL647, XL999 and XL784 in accordance with a specified development plan and related development budget. Our development activities will be supervised by SEI’s development committee, which is comprised of an equal number of 25 Table of Contents representatives from Exelixis and SEI. If the development committee cannot resolve a particular development issue, the issue will be referred to the chief executive officers of Exelixis and SEI. Any disagreements between SEI and us regarding a development decision may cause significant delays in the development and commercialization of our product candidates XL647, XL999 and XL784 as well as lead to development decisions that do not reflect our interests. Any such delays or development decisions not in our interest could negatively affect the value of XL647, XL999 and XL784. We are dependent upon our collaborations with major companies. If we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease and our activities may fail to lead to commercialized products. We have derived substantially all of our revenues to date from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. In addition, some of our collaborations are exclusive and preclude us from entering into additional collaborative arrangements with other parties in the area or field of exclusivity. Future collaborations may require us to relinquish some important rights, such as marketing and distribution rights. If these agreements or agreements with other partners are not renewed or are terminated early, whether unilaterally or by mutual agreement, or if we are unable to enter into new collaborative agreements on commercially acceptable terms, our revenues and product development efforts could suffer. For example, our agreement with Pharmacia Corporation terminated by mutual agreement in February 2002, which eliminated the opportunity for us to earn approximately $9.0 million in research revenue in 2002 and 2003. Similarly, our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline is scheduled to expire in October 2008 but is subject to earlier termination at the discretion of GlaxoSmithKline starting in 2005 if we fail to meet certain diligence requirements. Our agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb and Wyeth also contain early termination provisions. In addition, from time to time we review and assess certain aspects of our collaborations, partnerships and agreements and may amend or terminate, either by mutual agreement or pursuant to any applicable early termination provisions, such collaborations, partnerships or agreements if we deem them to be no longer in our economic or strategic interests. For example, in March 2005 we agreed with Bayer CropScience LP to terminate the research term under our collaboration with Bayer CropScience in order to allow us to focus on our core business. We may not be able to enter into new collaborative agreements on similar or superior financial terms to offset the loss of revenue from the termination or expiration of any of our existing arrangements, and the timing of new collaborative agreements may have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to successfully meet our objectives. Conflicts with our collaborators could jeopardize the outcome of our collaborative agreements and our ability to commercialize products. We are conducting proprietary research programs in specific disease, therapeutic modality and agricultural product areas that are not covered by our collaborative agreements. Our pursuit of opportunities in pharmaceutical and agricultural markets could result in conflicts with our collaborators in the event that any of our collaborators takes the position that our internal activities overlap with those areas that are exclusive to our collaborative agreements, and we should be precluded from such internal activities. Moreover, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over rights to our intellectual property. In addition, our collaborative agreements may have provisions that give rise to disputes regarding the respective rights and obligations of the parties, including the rights of collaborators with respect to our internal programs and disease area research. Any conflict with or among our collaborators could lead to the termination of our collaborative agreements, delay collaborative activities, impair our ability to renew agreements or obtain future collaboration agreements or result in litigation or arbitration and would negatively impact our relationship with existing collaborators. If our 26 Table of Contents collaborators fail to develop or commercialize any of our compounds or product candidates, we would not receive any future royalties or milestone payments for such compounds or product candidates. We have limited or no control over the resources that our collaborators may choose to devote to our joint efforts. Our collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or fail to perform their contractual obligations. Also, our collaboration agreements may be subject to early termination by mutual agreement. Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop products arising out of our collaborative arrangements, may experience financial difficulties, may undertake business combinations or significant changes in business strategy that adversely affect their willingness or ability to complete their obligations under any arrangement with us or may fail to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of such products. Certain of our collaborators could also become competitors in the future. If our collaborators develop competing products, preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors, fail to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, terminate their agreements with us prematurely or fail to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of our products, our product development efforts could be delayed and may fail to lead to commercialized products. If third parties upon which we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties we do not control, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. We lack the capability to manufacture compounds for clinical trials and rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates, and we may be unable to obtain required material in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at a quality level required to receive regulatory approval. We currently do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to enable us to produce materials for our clinical trials. We have a remaining obligation under our license agreement with Helsinn to deliver certain clinical trial materials to Helsinn for the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials of XL119 by April 30, 2006. We rely on collaborators and third-party contractors to produce our compounds for preclinical and clinical testing. These suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon these third-party manufacturers may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality level or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing third-party manufacturing arrangements, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our third-party manufacturers could terminate or decline to renew our manufacturing arrangements based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are unable to contract for the production of materials in sufficient quantity and of sufficient quality on acceptable terms, our clinical trials may be delayed. Delays in preclinical or clinical testing could delay the filing of our INDs and the initiation of clinical trials. Our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the GMP regulations, other applicable FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulations applicable outside of the United States. Additionally, if we are required to enter into new supply arrangements, we may not be able to obtain approval from the FDA of any alternate supplier in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and 27 Table of Contents commercialization of any related product candidates. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to obtain approval from the FDA or to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, civil penalties, delays in or failure to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, injunctions, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products and compounds, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Materials necessary to manufacture some of our compounds currently under development may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay our development and commercialization of these drugs. Some of the materials necessary for the manufacture of our compounds under development may, from time to time, be available either in limited quantities, or from a limited number of manufacturers, or both. Our contract manufacturers need to obtain these materials for our clinical trials and, potentially, for commercial distribution when and if we obtain marketing approval for these compounds. Suppliers may not sell us these materials at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain the materials needed for the conduct of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed, adversely impacting our ability to develop the product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable to obtain critical materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for a product candidate, the commercial launch of that product could be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which could materially affect our ability to generate revenues from that product. If suppliers increase the price of these materials, the price for one or more of our products may increase, which may make our product less competitive in the marketplace. If it becomes necessary to change suppliers for any of these materials or if any of our suppliers experience a shutdown or disruption in the facilities used to produce these materials, due to technical, regulatory or other problems, it could harm our ability to manufacture our products. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates Our product candidates are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. Our product candidates, as well as the activities associated with their research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate would prevent us from commercializing that product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Before a new drug application can be filed with the FDA, the product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and may require substantial expenditures. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results. The regulatory process also requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval periods of our product candidates may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another country approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and 28 Table of Contents development and clinical trials. These agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. Risks Related to Commercialization of Products The commercial success of any products that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, health care payors, private health insurers and the medical community. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which these products gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our products in comparison to competing products; • the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenues. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. Developing a sales and marketing force would be expensive and time-consuming, could delay any product launch, and we may never be able to develop this capacity. To the extent that we enter into arrangements to perform sales, marketing and distribution services with third parties, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenues. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for our products will be available from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations. Many patients will not be capable of paying themselves for some or all of the products that we may develop and will rely on third-party payors to pay for their medical needs. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payors provide some coverage or reimbursement for our products, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. 29 Table of Contents A primary trend in the United States health care industry is toward cost containment. In December 2003, the President signed into law legislation creating a prescription drug benefit program for Medicare recipients. The prescription drug program established by the legislation may have the effect of reducing the prices that we are able to charge for products we develop and sell through these plans. This prescription drug legislation may also cause third-party payors other than the federal government, including the States under the Medicaid program, to discontinue coverage for products we develop or to lower the amount that they will pay. Another development that may affect the pricing of drugs is the proposed Congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation gives additional discretion to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allow drug reimportation from foreign countries into the United States under some circumstances, including countries where the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation, which would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. If legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, they could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop, thereby negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in the commercialization of our product candidates. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Our competitors may develop products and technologies that make our products and technologies obsolete. The biotechnology industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by rapid technological change. In particular, the area of kinase-targeted therapies is a rapidly evolving and competitive field. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from large biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Some of our competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets, including some of our existing collaborators. In addition, significant delays in the development of our product candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us, which would impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Any products that are developed through our technologies will compete in highly competitive markets. Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and marketing capabilities. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies and products, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, there may be product candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our product candidates. We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. If any of these product candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial 30 Table of Contents sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as and when we deem appropriate. However, these applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our product candidates. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages, if, for example, others were the first to invent or to file patent applications for these inventions. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 31 Table of Contents Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our commercial success depends in part upon our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies. Other parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering genes and gene fragments, techniques and methodologies relating to model systems and products and technologies that we have developed or intend to develop. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may require us to pay substantial royalties, grant a cross-license to some of our patents to another patent holder or redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that we do not infringe third-party patents, which may be impossible to obtain or could require substantial time and expense. Third parties may accuse us of employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that use of such technologies infringes on these patents. Regardless of their merit, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel, in defending ourselves against any such claims or enforcing our patents. In the event that a successful claim of infringement is brought against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to Employees, Growth and Location The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impair our ability to expand our operations. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives and the continuation of existing collaborations. Also, we do not currently have sufficient technical personnel to fully execute our business plan. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and clinical personnel will be critical to support activities related to advancing our clinical and preclinical development programs, and supporting our collaborative arrangements and our internal proprietary research and development efforts. Competition is intense for experienced technical personnel, and we may be unable to retain or recruit scientists with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to pursue collaborations, develop our products and core technologies or expand our operations to the extent otherwise possible. Further, all of our employees are employed “at will” and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time. 32 Table of Contents Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although they generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Difficulties we may encounter managing our growth may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have experienced a period of rapid and substantial growth that has placed, and our anticipated growth in the future will continue to place, a strain on our research, administrative and operational infrastructure. As our operations expand, we will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to improve our reporting systems and procedures as well as our operational, financial and management controls. In addition, SEC rules and regulations have increased the internal control and regulatory requirements under which we operate. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner to meet future requirements. Our headquarters facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could harm our operations. Given our headquarters’ location in South San Francisco, California, our facilities are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We currently do not carry earthquake insurance. We are also vulnerable worldwide to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures, terrorism and similar events since any insurance we may maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot 33 Table of Contents eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. We may be held liable if any product we or our collaborators develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, substantial monetary awards to trial participants and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash reserves and could cause our stock price to fall. Risks Related to Genetic Engineering of Agricultural Products Social issues may limit the public acceptance of genetically engineered products, which could reduce demand for our products. Although our technology is not dependent upon genetic engineering, genetic engineering plays a prominent role in our approach to product development. For example, research efforts focusing on plant traits may involve either selective breeding or modification of existing genes in the plant under study. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that genetically engineered products are unsafe for consumption or pose a danger to the environment. The commercial success of our future products will depend, in part, upon public acceptance of the use of genetically engineered products, including drugs and plant and animal products. The subject of genetically modified organisms has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate. For example, certain countries in Europe require labeling of products that contain genetic modifications or are “genetically modified”. In addition, the European Union has implemented rules that regulate the placing on the market of food and feed products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms. These rules also provide for the labeling of such products to the final consumer. Adverse publicity has resulted in greater regulation internationally and trade restrictions on imports of genetically altered products. If similar action is taken in the United States or other countries, genetic research and genetically engineered products could be 34 Table of Contents subject to greater domestic regulation, including stricter labeling requirements. To date, our business has not been hampered by these activities. However, such publicity in the future may prevent any products resulting from our research from gaining market acceptance and reduce demand for our products, which are developed using genetic engineering. Laws and regulations may reduce our ability to sell genetically engineered products that we or our collaborators develop in the future. We or our collaborators may develop genetically engineered agricultural and animal products. The field-testing, production and marketing of genetically engineered products are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign governments. Regulatory agencies administering existing or future regulations or legislation may prevent us from producing and marketing genetically engineered products in a timely manner or under technically or commercially feasible conditions. In addition, regulatory action or private litigation could result in expenses, delays or other impediments to our product development programs and the commercialization of products. The FDA has released a policy statement stating that it will apply the same regulatory standards to foods developed through genetic engineering as it applies to foods developed through traditional plant breeding. Genetically engineered food products will be subject to premarket review, however, if these products raise safety questions or are deemed to be food additives. Our product candidates may be subject to lengthy FDA reviews and unfavorable FDA determinations if they raise questions regarding safety or if our products are deemed to be food additives. To date, the FDA has not required genetically engineered agricultural products to be labeled as such, provided that these products are as safe and have the same nutritional characteristics as conventionally developed products. The FDA may reconsider or change its policies, and local or state authorities may enact labeling requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability or the ability of our collaborators to develop and market products resulting from our efforts. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which we cannot control, could subject our operating results and stock price to volatility, including: • recognition of upfront licensing or other fees; • payments of non-refundable upfront or licensing fees to third parties; • acceptance of our technologies and platforms; • the success rate of our discovery efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties; • the introduction of new technologies or products by our competitors; • the timing and willingness of collaborators to commercialize our products; • our ability to enter into new collaborative relationships; • the termination or non-renewal of existing collaborations; • the timing and amount of expenses incurred for clinical development and manufacturing of our product candidates; • the impairment of acquired goodwill and other assets; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our collaborators’ research and development expenditures. 35 Table of Contents A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed in the short term. In addition, we expect operating expenses to increase significantly as we move more compounds into clinical development. Accordingly, if our revenues decline or do not grow as anticipated due to the expiration or termination of existing contracts, our failure to obtain new contracts or our inability to meet milestones or because of other factors, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenues could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. As a result, in some future quarters, our operating results may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our stock price may be extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following: • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of our or our collaborators’ product candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators’ or our competitors’ clinical trials; • the announcement of new products by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • litigation, including intellectual property infringement lawsuits, involving us; • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • financing transactions; • developments in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry; • sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • departures of key personnel or board members; • developments concerning current or future collaborations; • FDA or international regulatory actions; • third-party reimbursement policies; • acquisitions of other companies or technologies; • disposition of any of our subsidiaries, technologies or compounds; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. 36 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees; • the potential loss of key collaborators; • lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; and • acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deemed appropriate. For example, following an acquisition, a significant number of shares of our common stock held by new stockholders may become freely tradable or holders of registration rights could cause us to register their shares for resale. Sales of these shares of common stock held by existing stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us, and their interests could conflict with the best interests of our other stockholders. Due to their combined stock holdings, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock), acting together, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that would not be widely viewed as beneficial. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent or deter attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, a change in control, or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our current Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; 37 Table of Contents • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 