ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and our other reports filed with the SEC, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Financial Results If additional capital is not available to us, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts and we may breach our financial covenants. We will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development efforts; and • commercialize our product candidates, if any such candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. As of December 31, 2010, we had $256.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and long-term investments, which included restricted cash and investments of $6.4 million and approximately $96.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities that we are required to maintain on deposit with Silicon Valley Bank pursuant to covenants in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term investments and funding that we expect to receive from existing collaborators will enable us to maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months following the filing date of this report. However, our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors that may require us to use available capital resources significantly earlier than we currently anticipate. These factors include: • the cabozantinib development program—We are focusing our resources and development efforts on cabozantinib, our most advanced solely-owned product candidate, which is being studied in a variety of tumor types, with the goal of rapidly commercializing the compound. The current clinical program for cabozantinib is focused on the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and ovarian cancer, based on encouraging interim data that has emerged from the RDT. Data from the RDT were released at the ASCO Annual Meeting in June 2010 and demonstrated broad activity for cabozantinib across multiple tumor types, in particular, metastatic castration-resistant prostate, ovarian, non-small cell lung and hepatocellular cancers and hepatoma. Updated interim data presented at the 2010 EORTC Symposium and at the ASCO 2011 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium in February 2011, suggest that cabozantinib has a novel and differentiated clinical profile in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and ovarian cancer. The data presented indicate that cabozantinib has shown novel activity against bone and soft tissue lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Another priority for us will be to generate additional data in the various other cohorts of the RDT, including melanoma, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and hepatocellular cancer, to support further prioritization of our clinical and commercial options. We also are focusing our efforts on our ongoing phase 3 clinical trial of cabozantinib as a potential treatment for medullary thyroid cancer. In addition, we are conducting ongoing exploratory clinical trials for cabozantinib in other tumor types, including renal cell carcinoma. Our development plan for cabozantinib is dependent on the extent of our available financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources independently or through other arrangements to fund a broad development plan for cabozantinib. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, discontinue or elect not to pursue one or more trials for cabozantinib; 18 Table of Contents • repayment of our loan from GlaxoSmithKline—In October 2002, we entered into a collaboration agreement with GlaxoSmithKline. As part of the collaboration, we entered into a loan and security agreement with GlaxoSmithKline pursuant to which we borrowed $85.0 million for use in our efforts under the collaboration. The loan bears interest at a rate of 4.0% per annum and is secured by certain intellectual property, technology and equipment created or utilized pursuant to the collaboration. On October 27, 2010, we paid approximately $37.0 million in cash to GlaxoSmithKline as the second of three installments of principal and accrued interest due under the loan agreement. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal and interest outstanding under the loan was $35.9 million. The final installment of principal and accrued interest under the loan is due on October 27, 2011. Repayment of all or any of the amounts advanced to us under the loan agreement may, at our election, be made in the form of our common stock at fair market value, subject to certain conditions, or cash. In the event the market price for our common stock is depressed, we may not be able to repay the loan in full using shares of our common stock due to restrictions in the agreement on the number of shares we may issue. In addition, the issuance of shares of our common stock to repay the loan may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. As a result, we may need to obtain additional funding to satisfy our repayment obligations. However, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to repay amounts outstanding under the loan when due or that we will satisfy the conditions to our ability to repay the loan in shares of our common stock; • repayment of the notes under our note purchase agreement with Deerfield—On June 2, 2010, we entered into a note purchase agreement with entities affiliated with Deerfield Management Company, L.P., or Deerfield, pursuant to which, on July 1, 2010, we sold to Deerfield an aggregate of $124.0 million initial principal amount of our secured convertible notes, due June 2015, for an aggregate purchase price of $80.0 million, less closing fees and expenses. The outstanding principal amount of the notes bears interest in the annual amount of $6.0 million, payable quarterly in arrears. We will be required to make mandatory prepayments on the notes on an annual basis in 2013, 2014 and 2015 equal to 15% of our collaborative arrangements received during the prior fiscal year, subject to a maximum annual prepayment amount of $27.5 million and, for payments due in January 2013 and 2014, a minimum prepayment amount of $10.0 million. We may also prepay all or a portion (not less than $5.0 million) of the principal amount of the notes at an optional prepayment price based on a discounted principal amount (during the first three years of the term, subject to a prepayment premium) determined as of the date of prepayment, plus accrued and unpaid interest, plus in the case of a prepayment of the full principal amount of the notes (other than prepayments upon the occurrence of specified transactions relating to a change of control or a substantial sale of assets), all accrued interest that would have accrued between the date of such prepayment and the next anniversary of the note purchase agreement. In lieu of making any optional or mandatory prepayment in cash, at any time after July 1, 2011, subject to certain limitations, we have the right to convert all or a portion of the principal amount of the notes into, or satisfy all or any portion of the optional prepayment amounts or mandatory prepayment amounts (other than the first $10.0 million of mandatory prepayments required in 2013 and 2014) with shares of our common stock. Additionally, in lieu of making any payment of accrued and unpaid interest in respect of the notes in cash, at any time after July 1, 2011, subject to certain limitations, we may elect to satisfy any such payment with shares of our common stock. The number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion or in settlement of principal and interest obligations will be based upon the discounted trading price of our common stock over a specified trading period. In the event the market price for our common stock is depressed, we may not be able to convert the principal amount of the notes or satisfy our payment obligations in full using shares of our common stock due to restrictions in the agreement on the number of shares we may issue. In addition, the issuance of shares of our common stock to convert the notes or satisfy our payment obligations may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. As a result, we may need to obtain additional funding to satisfy our repayment obligations. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to repay the notes or satisfy our payment obligations under the note purchase agreement when due or that 19 Table of Contents we will comply with the conditions to our ability to convert the principal amount of the notes into or satisfy our payment obligations with shares of our common stock; • repayment of our loan from Silicon Valley Bank—On June 2, 2010, we amended our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to provide for a new seven-year term loan in an amount of $80.0 million. The principal amount outstanding under the term loan accrues interest at 1.0% per annum, which interest is due and payable monthly. We are required to repay the term loan in one balloon principal payment, representing 100% of the principal balance and accrued and unpaid interest, on May 31, 2017. We have the option to prepay all, but not less than all, of the amounts advanced under the term loan, provided that we pay all unpaid accrued interest thereon that is due through the date of such prepayment and the interest on the entire principal balance of the term loan that would otherwise have been paid after such prepayment date until the maturity date of the term loan. In accordance with the terms of the loan and security agreement, we are also required to maintain on deposit an amount equal to at least 100% of the outstanding principal balance of the term loan at all times as support for our obligations under the loan and security agreement. As a result, although the proceeds of the new term loan improve our ability to comply with minimum working capital and cash covenants imposed by our debt instruments with GlaxoSmithKline and Deerfield and thus provide us with more flexibility to use our other cash resources, the proceeds of the term loan cannot directly be used to satisfied our other obligations without causing a default under our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank; • the level of payments received under existing collaboration agreements, licensing agreements and other arrangements; • the degree to which we conduct funded development activity on behalf of partners to whom we have out-licensed compounds; • whether we enter into new collaboration agreements, licensing agreements or other arrangements (including, in particular, with respect to cabozantinib) that provide additional capital; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to remain in compliance with, or amend or cause to be waived, financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties; • the amount of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities that serve as collateral for bank lines of credit; • future clinical trial results; • our need to expand our product and clinical development efforts; • our ability to share the costs of our clinical development efforts with third parties; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the cost of clinical and research supplies of our product candidates; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the cost of any acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products and technologies. One or more of these factors or changes to our current operating plan may require us to use available capital resources significantly earlier than we anticipate. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through external borrowings. In addition, we may enter into additional strategic partnerships or 20 Table of Contents collaborative arrangements for the development and commercialization of our compounds. However, we may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital when we need it, on favorable terms or at all. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt-financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that would restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness, and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our stockholders or us. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms or we may be required to relinquish rights to technology or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. We may need to obtain additional funding in order to stay in compliance with financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties. As described below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements,” the terms of our debt owed to GlaxoSmithKline, Deerfield and Silicon Valley Bank each contain covenants requiring us to maintain specified cash balances or working capital. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of the underlying debt obligations. If we cannot raise additional capital in order to remain in compliance with such covenants or if we are unable to renegotiate such covenants and the lender exercises its remedies under the agreement, we would not be able to operate under our current operating plan. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses since inception, including a net loss attributable to Exelixis, Inc. of $92.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of that date, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,182.1 million. We expect to continue to incur net losses and anticipate negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. We have not yet completed the development, including obtaining regulatory approval, of cabozantinib or any other product candidates and, consequently, have not generated revenues from the sale of pharmaceutical products. We have derived substantially all of our revenues to date from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, research funding, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. If research funding we receive from collaborators decreases, we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. The amount of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our license and contract revenues and on the level of our expenses. These losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Our research and development expenditures and general and administrative expenses have exceeded our revenues to date, and we expect to spend significant additional amounts to fund the development of cabozantinib. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial operating expenses, and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve profitability. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We may not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to control costs. Managing costs is a key element of our business strategy. Consistent with this element of our strategy, on December 1, 2010 we implemented a restructuring that will result in a reduction of our workforce by approximately 65% over a two-year period. We anticipate that we will incur restructuring charges through the end of 2017 as we implement this restructuring. We are still assessing our ability to sublease certain of our facilities in light of the workforce reduction as well as the potential for sublease income. Estimates for sublease income would require significant assumptions regarding the time required to contract with subtenants, the amount of idle space we would be able to sublease 21 Table of Contents and potential future sublease rates. If we are able to vacate certain of our facilities, we would need to continue to update our estimate of the lease exist costs in our financial statements until we were able to negotiate an exit to the lease or negotiate a sublease for the remaining term of the lease. If we experience excessive unanticipated inefficiencies or incremental costs in connection with restructuring activities, such as unanticipated inefficiencies caused by reducing headcount, we may be unable to meaningfully realize cost savings and we may incur expenses in excess of what we anticipate. Either of these outcomes could prevent us from meeting our strategic objectives and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Most of our foreign expenses incurred are associated with establishing and conducting clinical trials for cabozantinib. The amount of expenses incurred will be impacted by fluctuations in the currencies of those countries in which we conduct clinical trials. Our agreements with the foreign sites that conduct such clinical trials generally provide that payments for the services provided will be calculated in the currency of that country, and converted into U.S. dollars using various exchange rates based upon when services are rendered or the timing of invoices. When the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates may affect our results of operations. Global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While as of the date of this filing we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents, short-term investments, or long-term investments since December 31, 2010, no assurance can be given that a deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Risks Related to Development of Cabozantinib We are dependent on the successful development and commercialization of cabozantinib. The success of our business is dependent upon the successful development and commercialization of cabozantinib. As part of our strategy, we intend to dedicate all of our proprietary resources to advance cabozantinib as aggressively as feasible. Our ability to realize the value of our investment is contingent on, among other things, successful clinical development, regulatory approval and market acceptance of cabozantinib. If we encounter difficulties in the development of cabozantinib due to any of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section or otherwise, or we do not receive regulatory approval and are unable to commercialize cabozantinib, we will not have the resources necessary to continue our business in its current form. Clinical testing of cabozantinib and other product candidates is a lengthy, costly, complex and uncertain process and may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that our product candidates are ineffective or have unacceptable toxicity or other side effects that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval. 22 Table of Contents The results of preliminary studies do not necessarily predict clinical or commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results observed in earlier-stage trials or preliminary studies. Although we have established timelines for manufacturing and clinical development of cabozantinib based on existing knowledge of our compounds in development and industry metrics, we may not be able to meet those timelines. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical testing that could delay or prevent commercialization of cabozantinib, including: • cabozantinib may not prove to be efficacious or may cause, or potentially cause, harmful side effects; • negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or to abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; • our competitors may subsequently discover other compounds or therapies that we believe show significantly improved safety or efficacy compared to cabozantinib; • patient registration or enrollment in our clinical testing may be lower than we anticipate, resulting in the delay or cancellation of clinical testing; and • regulators or institutional review boards withhold authorization of, or delay, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or their determination that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. If any of the events described above were to occur and, as a result, we were to have significant delays in or termination of our clinical testing of cabozantinib, our expenses could increase or our ability to generate revenues from cabozantinib could be impaired, either of which could adversely impact our financial results. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and may not be able to rapidly or effectively continue the further development of cabozantinib or meet current or future requirements identified based on our discussions with the FDA. Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, or at all, may not be completed on schedule, or at all, may not be sufficient for registration of cabozantinib or may not result in an approvable product. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of cabozantinib as a product candidate. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of factors relating to the clinical trial, including, among others: • the number of patients that ultimately participate in the clinical trial; • the duration of patient follow-up that is appropriate in view of the results; • the number of clinical sites included in the trials; and • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects. Any delay described above could limit our ability to generate revenues, cause us to incur additional expense and cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our partners may experience similar risks with respect to the compounds we have outlicensed to them. If any of the events described above were to occur with such programs or compounds, the likelihood of receipt of milestones and royalties under such collaboration agreements could decrease. If third parties upon which we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize cabozantinib. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for cabozantinib, and we rely on third parties we do not control such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and 23 Table of Contents contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize cabozantinib. We lack the capability to manufacture compounds for clinical trials and rely on third parties to manufacture cabozantinib, and we may be unable to obtain required material in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at a quality level required to receive regulatory approval. We do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to enable us to produce materials for our clinical trials. We rely on collaborators and third-party contractors to produce cabozantinib for clinical testing. These suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s current GMP. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon these third-party manufacturers may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop and commercialize product cabozantinib on a timely and competitive basis. These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing third-party manufacturing arrangements, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our third-party manufacturers could terminate or decline to renew our manufacturing arrangements based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are unable to contract for the production of materials in sufficient quantity and of sufficient quality on acceptable terms, our clinical trials may be delayed. Delays in preclinical or clinical testing could delay the initiation of clinical trials. Our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the GMP regulations, other applicable FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulations applicable outside of the United States. Additionally, if we are required to enter into new supply arrangements, we may not be able to obtain approval from the FDA of any alternate supplier in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of cabozantinib. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to obtain approval from the FDA or to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, civil penalties, delays in or failure to grant marketing approval of cabozantinib, injunctions, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products and compounds, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a significant adverse affect on our business. Materials necessary to manufacture cabozantinib may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay its development and commercialization. Some of the materials necessary for the manufacture of cabozantinib may, from time to time, be available either in limited quantities, or from a limited number of manufacturers, or both. Our contract manufacturers need to obtain these materials for our clinical trials and, potentially, for commercial distribution when and if we obtain marketing approval for cabozantinib. Suppliers may not sell us these materials at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain the materials needed to conduct our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed, adversely affecting our ability to develop cabozantinib. Similarly, if we are unable to obtain critical manufacturing materials after regulatory approval has been obtained, the commercial launch of cabozantinib could be delayed or there could be a shortage in supply, which could materially affect our ability to generate revenues from sales of cabozantinib. If suppliers increase the price of manufacturing materials, the price for cabozantinib may increase, which may make it less competitive in the marketplace. If it becomes necessary to change suppliers for any of these materials or if any of our suppliers experience a shutdown or disruption at the facilities used to produce these materials, due to technical, regulatory or other reasons, it could harm our ability to manufacture cabozantinib. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties We are dependent upon our collaborations with major companies, which subjects us to a number of risks. We have established collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, sanofi-aventis, Genentech, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline and Daiichi Sankyo, for the development and ultimate commercialization of a significant number of compounds generated from our research and development efforts. We continue to pursue collaborations for selected unpartnered preclinical and clinical programs and compounds. Our dependence on our relationships with existing collaborators for the development and commercialization of our compounds subjects us to, and our dependence on future collaborators for development and commercialization of additional compounds will subject us to, a number of risks, including: • we are not able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators will devote to the development or commercialization of drug candidates or to their marketing and distribution; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our potential future collaborators may devote to the development or commercialization of drug candidates or to their marketing and distribution; • collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a drug candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a drug candidate for clinical testing; • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and resources; • collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • collaborators may not be successful in their efforts to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or at all; • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing drug candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • we may be precluded from entering into additional collaboration arrangements with other parties in an area or field of exclusivity; • future collaborators may require us to relinquish some important rights, such as marketing and distribution rights; and • collaborations may be terminated (as occurred with respect to cabozantinib, that was previously subject to our 2008 collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb) or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our drug candidates. If any of these risks materialize, our product development efforts could be delayed and otherwise adversely affected, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue current collaborations and achieve milestones or royalties, our revenues would suffer. We have derived substantially all of our revenues to date from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or royalties, or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. If any of these agreements is terminated early (as occurred with respect to cabozantinib, which was previously subject to our 2008 collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb), whether unilaterally or by mutual agreement, our revenues could suffer. Most of our collaboration agreements contain early termination provisions. In addition, from time to time we review and assess certain aspects of our collaborations, partnerships and agreements and may amend or terminate, either by mutual agreement or pursuant to any applicable early termination provisions, such collaborations, partnerships or agreements if we deem them to be no longer in our economic or strategic interests. We may not be able to enter into new collaboration agreements on similar or superior financial terms to offset the loss of revenues from the termination or expiration of any of our existing or recently terminated arrangements. We may be unable to establish collaborations for selected preclinical and clinical compounds. Our strategy includes the pursuit of new collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and ultimate commercialization of selected preclinical and clinical programs and compounds, particularly those drug candidates for which we believe that the capabilities and resources of a partner can accelerate development and help to fully realize their therapeutic and commercial potential. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators, and these collaborations are complex and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate additional collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional collaborations because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing additional collaborations. If we are unable to negotiate additional collaborations, we may not be able to realize value from a particular drug candidate, particularly those drug candidates as to which we believe a broad development program is appropriate or for which we have determined not to continue to utilize our own resources to develop. As a result, our revenues, capital resources and product development efforts could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Cabozantinib Cabozantinib is subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize this product candidate. Cabozantinib, as well as the activities associated with the research, development and commercialization of the product candidate, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for cabozantinib would prevent us from commercializing this product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market cabozantinib in any jurisdiction and have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Before an NDA can be submitted to the FDA, the product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and requires substantial expenditures. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results. The regulatory process also requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations. The 26 Table of Contents FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to approve any NDA or decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. For example, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of cabozantinib. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval periods of cabozantinib may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another country approves cabozantinib, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, distribution, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of cabozantinib and may impose ongoing requirements for post- approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. Risks Related to Commercialization of Cabozantinib The commercial success of cabozantinib will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of the product candidate among physicians, patients, health care payors, private health insurers and the medical community. Our ability to commercialize cabozantinib will be highly dependent upon the extent to which the product candidate gains market acceptance among physicians; patients; health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid; private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If cabozantinib does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues, if at all, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of cabozantinib, if approved for commercial sale, will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of cabozantinib in comparison to competing products; • the existence of any significant side effects of cabozantinib, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer cabozantinib for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell cabozantinib, we may be unable to generate product revenues. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not have a sales and marketing organization. Developing a sales and marketing force would be expensive and time-consuming, could delay any product launch, and we may never be able to develop this capacity. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to provide sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell cabozantinib ourselves. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenues. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for cabozantinib, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize cabozantinib will be highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the product candidate will be available from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations. Many patients will not be capable of paying themselves for cabozantinib and will rely on third-party payors to pay for, or subsidize, their medical needs. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimbursement for cabozantinib, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payors provide some coverage or reimbursement for cabozantinib, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. Another factor that may affect the pricing of drugs is proposed congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 gives discretion to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allow drug reimportation into the United States under some circumstances from foreign countries, including countries where the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation, which would allow direct reimportation under certain circumstances. If legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, it could decrease the price we receive for cabozantinib, thereby negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement and/or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of cabozantinib to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in the commercialization of cabozantinib. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use cabozantinib. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for cabozantinib, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell cabozantinib profitably. The U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the U.S. and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, became law in the U.S. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: • an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, beginning in 2011; 28 Table of Contents • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010, to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning in 2011; • extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 23, 2010; • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective in January 2010; • new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians, including reporting any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013, and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year; • a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012; • a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. We anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and an additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. We also cannot be certain that cabozantinib will successfully be placed on the list of drugs covered by particular health plan formularies, nor can we predict the negotiated price for cabozantinib, which will be determined by market factors. Many states have also created preferred drug lists and include drugs on those lists only when the manufacturers agree to pay a supplemental rebate. If cabozantinib is not included on these preferred drug lists, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe it to their Medicaid patients, thereby diminishing the potential market for cabozantinib. As a result of the PPACA and the trend towards cost-effectiveness criteria and managed healthcare in the United States, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse for newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. Further, we do not have experience in ensuring approval by applicable third-party payors outside of the United States for coverage and reimbursement of cabozantinib. We also anticipate pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. 29 Table of Contents Our competitors may develop products and technologies that make cabozantinib obsolete. The biotechnology industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by rapid technological change. In particular, the area of kinase-targeted therapies is a rapidly evolving and competitive field. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Some of our competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets, including some of our existing collaborators. In addition, significant delays in the development of cabozantinib could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us, which would impair our ability to commercialize cabozantinib. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Any products that are developed through our technologies will compete in highly competitive markets. Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and marketing capabilities. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies and products, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. There may also be drug candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with cabozantinib. In addition, if cabozantinib is successfully developed, it may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of use, such as chemotherapy and radiation treatments in cancer indications. Examples of potential competition for cabozantinib include AstraZeneca’s development-stage RET, VEGFR and EGFR inhibitor, vandetanib, other VEGF pathway inhibitors, including Genentech’s bevacizumab, and other MET inhibitors, including Pfizer’s crizotinib, ArQule’s ARQ197, GlaxoSmithKline’s foretinib (XL880) and Genentech’s Met MAb. We may not be able to manufacture cabozantinib in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. To date, cabozantinib has been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. If cabozantinib is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture it in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, for cabozantinib in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for cabozantinib, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of the product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Cabozantinib require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as and when we deem appropriate. However, these applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be pending applications, unknown to us, which may later 30 Table of Contents result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our product candidates. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages, if, for example, others were the first to invent or to file patent applications for these inventions. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our commercial success depends in part upon our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not to breach any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies. Other parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering genes and gene fragments, techniques and methodologies relating to model systems and products and technologies that we have developed or intend to develop. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may require us to pay substantial royalties, grant a cross-license to some of our patents to another patent holder or redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that we do not infringe third-party patents, which may be impossible to obtain or could require substantial time and expense. Third parties may accuse us of employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that use of such technologies infringes on their patents. Regardless of their merit, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel, in defending ourselves against any such claims or enforcing our patents. In the event that a successful claim of infringement is brought against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. 31 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to Employees and Location The loss of key personnel or the inability to retain and, where necessary, attract additional personnel could impair our ability to expand our operations. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives and the continuation of existing collaborations. Also, we may not have sufficient personnel to execute our business plan. Retaining and, where necessary, recruiting qualified clinical and scientific personnel will be critical to support activities related to advancing our clinical and preclinical development programs, and supporting our collaborative arrangements and our internal proprietary research and development efforts. The restructuring that we implemented on December 1, 2010 could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel. Competition is intense for experienced clinical personnel, and we may be unable to retain or recruit clinical personnel with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to pursue collaborations, develop our products and core technologies or expand our operations to the extent otherwise possible. Further, all of our employees are employed “at will” and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although these advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In such a circumstance, we may lose work performed by them, and our development efforts with respect to the matters on which they were working maybe significantly delayed or otherwise adversely affected. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Our headquarters are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could harm our operations. Our headquarters are located in South San Francisco, California, and therefore our facilities are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We do not carry earthquake insurance. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures, terrorism and similar events since any insurance we may maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. 32 Table of Contents Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may face liability for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and such liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. We may be held liable if any product we or our collaborators develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, substantial monetary awards to trial participants and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If we obtain marketing approval for cabozantinib, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and business and would decrease our cash reserves. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which we cannot control, could subject our operating results to volatility, including: • the scope of our research and development activities; • recognition of upfront licensing or other fees or revenues; • payments of non-refundable upfront or licensing fees, or payment for cost-sharing expenses, to third parties; • acceptance of our technologies and platforms; • the success rate of our efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties; • the introduction of new technologies or products by our competitors; • the timing and willingness of collaborators to further develop or, if approved, commercialize our product outlicensed to them; • our ability to enter into new collaborative relationships; • the termination or non-renewal of existing collaborations; • the timing and amount of expenses incurred for clinical development and manufacturing cabozantinib; • adjustments to expenses accrued in prior periods based on management’s estimates after the actual level of activity relating to such expenses becomes more certain; • the impairment of acquired goodwill and other assets; • the impact of the restructuring of the company implemented on December 1, 2010; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our collaborators’ research and development expenditures. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed in the short term. If our revenues decline or do not grow as anticipated due to the expiration or termination of existing contracts, our failure to obtain new contracts or our inability to meet milestones or because of other factors, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenues could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. As a result, in some future quarters, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our stock price may be extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following, many of which we cannot control: • adverse results or delays in our or our collaborators’ clinical trials; 34 Table of Contents • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of cabozantinib or our collaborators’ product candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators’ or our competitors’ clinical trials; • the timing of achievement of our clinical, regulatory, partnering and other milestones, such as the commencement of clinical development, the completion of a clinical trial, the filing for regulatory approval or the establishment of collaborative arrangements for one or more of our outlicensed programs and compounds; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to cabozantinib or our clinical trials for cabozantinib; • the announcement of new products by our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • developments in our relationships with our collaborators, including the termination or modification of our agreements; • conflicts or litigation with our collaborators; • litigation, including intellectual property infringement and product liability lawsuits, involving us; • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • financing transactions; • developments in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry; • sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • departures of key personnel or board members; • developments concerning current or future collaborations; • FDA or international regulatory actions; • third-party reimbursement policies; • disposition of any of our subsidiaries, technologies or compounds; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Excessive volatility may continue for an extended period of time following the filing date of this report. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants or upon vesting of restricted stock units and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 35 Table of Contents Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us, and their interests could conflict with the best interests of our other stockholders. Due to their combined stock holdings, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock), acting together, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that would not be widely viewed as beneficial. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent or deter attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, a change in control, or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our current Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 