ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Financial Results If additional capital is not available to us, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts and we may breach our financial covenants. We will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development efforts; and • commercialize our product candidates, if any such candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. As of December 31, 2008, we had $284.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities, which included investments held by SEI of $14.7 million and restricted cash and investments of $4.0 million. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities, investments held by SEI, funds available under the Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities, and other funding that we expect to receive from collaborators, which assumes a moderate level of business development activity, will enable us to maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months following the filing date of this report. Our goal is to be able to operate independently of the capital markets for a substantial period of time. However, our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors that may require us to use available capital resources significantly earlier than we currently anticipate. These factors include: • repayment of our loan from GlaxoSmithKline – In October 2002, we entered into a collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, to discover and develop novel therapeutics in the areas of vascular biology, inflammatory disease and oncology. As part of the collaboration, we entered into a loan and security agreement with GlaxoSmithKline, pursuant to which we borrowed $85.0 million for use in our efforts under the collaboration. The loan bears interest at a rate of 4.0% per annum and is secured by certain intellectual property, technology and equipment created or utilized pursuant to the collaboration. Principal and accrued interest under the loan becomes due in three annual installments, beginning on October 27, 2009. Repayment of all or any of the amounts advanced to us under this agreement may, at our election, be in the form of our common stock at fair market value, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate principal and interest outstanding under our GlaxoSmithKline loan was $102.2 million. Following the conclusion on October 27, 2008 of the development term under our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, we are no longer eligible to receive selection milestone payments from GlaxoSmithKline to credit against outstanding loan amounts, and in the event the market price for our common stock is depressed, we may not be able to repay the loan in full using shares of our common stock due to restrictions in the agreement on the number of shares we may issue. In addition, the issuance of shares of our common stock to repay the loan may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. As a result, we may need to obtain additional funding, including from funds available under the Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities, to satisfy our repayment obligations, including the payment that is due on October 27, 2009. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to repay amounts outstanding under the loan when due or that we will satisfy the conditions to our ability to repay the loan in shares of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents • whether and when we draw funds under our Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities – In June 2008, we entered into the Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities pursuant to which the Deerfield Entities agreed to loan to us up to $150.0 million, subject to certain conditions. We may draw down on the facility in $15.0 million increments at any time until December 2009. The outstanding principal and interest under the loan, if any, is due by June 4, 2013, and, at our option, can be repaid at any time with shares of our common stock, subject to certain restrictions, or in cash. Interest under the loan does not accrue until we draw down on the facility, at which time interest will begin to accrue at a rate of 6.75% per annum compounded annually on the outstanding principal amount of the facility. The Deerfield Entities also have limited rights to accelerate repayment of the loan upon certain changes of control of Exelixis or an event of default. Pursuant to the Facility Agreement, we paid the Deerfield Entities a one time transaction fee of $3.8 million, or 2.5% of the loan facility, and we are obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of $3.4 million, or 2.25% of the loan facility, payable quarterly. If we draw down under the Facility Agreement, we would be required to issue to the Deerfield Entities additional warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. If we draw down under the Facility Agreement, there is no assurance that the conditions to our ability to repay the loan in shares of our common stock would be satisfied at the time that any outstanding principal and interest under the loan is due, in which case we would be obligated to repay the loan in cash, or that events permitting acceleration of the loan will not occur, in which event we would be required to repay any outstanding principal and interest sooner than anticipated; • the progress and scope of our collaborative and independent clinical trials and other research and development projects, including with respect to XL184, our most advanced asset. We expect to particularly focus our later stage development efforts on XL184, which is being studied in a variety of tumor types, with the goal of rapidly commercializing the compound. As described under “ – Corporate Collaborations – Bristol-Myers Squibb – 2008 Cancer Collaboration,” in December 2008, we entered into a worldwide co-development collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb for the development and commercialization of XL184. The companies will share worldwide (except for Japan) development costs for XL184. We are responsible for 35% of such costs and Bristol-Myers Squibb is responsible for 65% of such costs, except that we are responsible to fund the initial $100 million of combined costs and have the option to defer payments for development costs above certain thresholds. In return, we will share 50% of the commercial profits and losses (including pre-launch commercialization expenses) in the United States and have the option to co-promote XL184 in the United States. We have the right to defer payment for certain early commercialization and other related costs above certain thresholds. During the term of the collaboration, so long as we have not opted out of the co-development of XL184, there may be periods during which Bristol-Myers Squibb will partially reimburse us for certain research and development expenses, and other periods during which we will owe Bristol-Myers Squibb for research and development expenses that Bristol-Myers Squibb incurred on joint development projects, less amounts reimbursable to us by Bristol-Myers Squibb on these projects. On an annual basis, to the extent that net research and development funding payments are received from Bristol-Myers Squibb, these payments will be presented as collaboration revenue. In annual periods when net research and development funding payments are payable to Bristol-Myers Squibb, these payments will be presented as collaboration cost sharing expense. Generally, the direction of cash flows will depend on the level of development activity by either party, which may change during the development term. Our capital requirements will be impacted by the level of our expenses for the development activity conducted by us and the degree to which we will be required to make payments to, or we will receive payments from, Bristol-Myers Squibb. If we opt out of the co-development of XL184, we would have no further unreimbursed cost obligations; • the level of payments received under existing collaboration agreements, licensing agreements and other arrangements as well as our ability to enter into new collaboration agreements, licensing agreements and other arrangements that provide additional payments; • our ability to control costs; 23 Table of Contents • our ability to remain in compliance with, or amend or cause to be waived, financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties; • the amount of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities that serve as collateral for bank lines of credit; • future clinical trial results; • our need to expand our product and clinical development efforts; • our ability to share the costs of our clinical development efforts with third parties; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the cost of clinical and research supplies of our product candidates; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of any acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products and technologies; and • the cost and timing of establishing or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. One or more of these factors or changes to our current operating plan may require us to use available capital resources significantly earlier than we anticipate. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. We may seek to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through external borrowings. In addition, we may enter into strategic partnerships for the development and commercialization of our compounds. However, we may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital when we need it, on favorable terms or at all. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt-financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that would restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness, and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our stockholders or us. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms or we may be required to relinquish rights to technology or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. We will have to obtain additional funding in order to stay in compliance with financial covenants contained in agreements with third parties. For example, as part of our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, we entered into the loan and security agreement, which, as amended, contains financial covenants pursuant to which our “working capital” (the amount by which our current assets exceed our current liabilities as defined by the agreement, which excludes restricted cash and deferred revenue, but includes amounts available for borrowing under the Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities) must not be less than $25.0 million and our “cash and investments” (total cash, cash equivalents and investments as defined by the agreement, which excludes restricted cash) must not be less than $50.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, our “working capital” was $321.0 million (including $150.0 million available for borrowing under the Facility Agreement) and our “cash and investments” were $280.2 million. If we were to default on the financial covenants under the loan and security agreement, GlaxoSmithKline may, among other remedies, declare immediately due and payable all obligations under the loan and security agreement. Outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the loan and security agreement totaled $102.2 million at December 31, 2008. Principal and accrued interest under the loan becomes due in three annual installments beginning on October 27, 2009. In addition, if our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities on the last day of any calendar quarter are less than $75.0 million, then we would be in default under the Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities, and the Deerfield Entities would have the right, among other remedies, to cancel our right to request disbursements and declare immediately due and payable any amounts accrued or payable under the Facility Agreement. If our “cash reserves” fall below $80.0 million and we 24 Table of Contents are unable to increase such cash reserves to $80.0 million or more within 90 days, our co-development and co-promotion rights with respect to XL184 under our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb may be terminated. “Cash reserves” for purposes of our 2008 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb includes our total cash, cash equivalents and investments (excluding any restricted cash), plus the amount then available for borrowing by us under the Facility Agreement with the Deerfield Entities, as the same may be amended from time to time, and any other similar financing arrangements. If we cannot raise additional capital in order to remain in compliance with our financial covenants or if we are unable to renegotiate such covenants and the lender exercises its remedies under the agreement, we would not be able to operate under our current operating plan. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses since inception, including a net loss of $162.9 million for year ended December 31, 2008. As of that date, we had an accumulated deficit of $954.5 million. We expect our losses in 2009 to increase as compared to 2008 and anticipate negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. We have not yet completed the development, including obtaining regulatory approval, of any of our pharmaceutical product candidates and, consequently, have not generated revenues from the sale of pharmaceutical products. Except for revenues associated with the transgenic mouse business of our former German subsidiary, Artemis Pharmaceuticals, GmbH, or Artemis, our only revenues to date are license revenues and revenues under contracts with our partners. In November 2007, we sold 80.1% of our ownership interest in Artemis. The amount of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our license and contract revenues and on the level of our expenses. These losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Our research and development expenditures and general and administrative expenses have exceeded our revenues to date, and we expect to spend significant additional amounts to fund research and development in order to enhance our technologies and undertake product development. We currently have numerous product candidates in various stages of clinical development and we anticipate filing additional IND applications for additional product candidates within the next 12 months. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial operating expenses, and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve profitability. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do increase our revenues and achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. We may not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to control costs. Managing costs is a key element of our business strategy. Consistent with this element of our strategy, in November 2008 we implemented a restructuring that resulted in the reduction of approximately 10% of our workforce. We anticipate that we will incur some level of restructuring charges through the end of 2009 as we continue to implement this restructuring. If we experience excessive unanticipated inefficiencies or incremental costs in connection with restructuring activities, such as unanticipated inefficiencies caused by reducing headcount, we may be unable to meaningfully realize cost savings and we may incur expenses in excess of what we anticipate. Either of these outcomes could prevent us from meeting our goal of being able to operate independently of the capital markets for a substantial period of time, and could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While as of 25 Table of Contents the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents, short-term investments, or long-term investments since December 31, 2008, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Risks Related to Development of Product Candidates Clinical testing of our product candidates is a lengthy, costly, complex and uncertain process and may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are inherently risky and may reveal that our product candidates are ineffective or have unacceptable toxicity or other side effects that may significantly decrease the likelihood of regulatory approval. The results of preliminary studies do not necessarily predict clinical or commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results observed in earlier-stage trials or preliminary studies. Although we have established timelines for manufacturing and clinical development based on existing knowledge of our compounds in development and industry metrics, we may not be able to meet those timelines. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical testing that could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates, including: • our product candidates may not prove to be efficacious or may cause harmful side effects; • negative or inconclusive clinical trial results may require us to conduct further testing or to abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; • we or our competitors may subsequently discover other compounds that we believe show significantly improved safety or efficacy compared to our product candidates; • patient registration or enrollment in our clinical testing may be lower than we anticipate, resulting in the delay or cancellation of clinical testing; and • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize, delay, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or their determination that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. If any of these events were to occur and, as a result, we were to have significant delays in or termination of our clinical testing, our expenses could increase or our ability to generate revenue from the affected product candidates could be impaired, either of which could adversely impact our financial results. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and may not be able to rapidly or effectively continue the further development of our compounds or meet current or future requirements identified based on our discussions with the FDA. We do not know whether our planned clinical trials will begin on time, will be completed on schedule, or at all, will be sufficient for registration of these compounds or will result in approvable products. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a product candidate. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of factors relating to the clinical trial, including, among others: • the number of patients that ultimately participate in the clinical trial; • the duration of patient follow-up that is appropriate in view of the results; • the number of clinical sites included in the trials; and • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects. 26 Table of Contents Any delay or termination described above could limit our ability to generate revenues, cause us to incur additional expense and cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties We are dependent upon our collaborations with major companies. If we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease and our activities may fail to lead to commercialized products. We have derived substantially all of our revenues to date from collaborative research and development agreements. Revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from the collaborative research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under such collaborative agreements. In addition, some of our collaborations are exclusive and preclude us from entering into additional collaboration arrangements with other parties in the area or field of exclusivity. Future collaborations may require us to relinquish some important rights, such as marketing and distribution rights. If any of these agreements is not renewed or is terminated early, whether unilaterally or by mutual agreement, or if we are unable to enter into new collaboration agreements on commercially acceptable terms, our revenues and product development efforts could suffer. Our agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb, Genentech, Daiichi-Sanko and Wyeth contain early termination provisions. In addition, from time to time we review and assess certain aspects of our collaborations, partnerships and agreements and may amend or terminate, either by mutual agreement or pursuant to any applicable early termination provisions, such collaborations, partnerships or agreements if we deem them to be no longer in our economic or strategic interests. We may not be able to enter into new collaboration agreements on similar or superior financial terms to offset the loss of revenue from the termination or expiration of any of our existing arrangements, and the timing of new collaboration agreements may have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to successfully meet our objectives. Conflicts with our collaborators could jeopardize the outcome of our collaboration agreements and our ability to commercialize products. We are conducting proprietary research programs in specific disease, therapeutic modality and agricultural product areas that are not covered by our collaboration agreements. Our pursuit of opportunities in pharmaceutical and agricultural markets could result in conflicts with our collaborators in the event that any of our collaborators takes the position that our internal activities overlap with those areas that are exclusive to our collaboration agreements, and we should be precluded from such internal activities. Moreover, disagreements with our collaborators could develop over, among other things, development plans and budgets, the parties’ respective research and development activities and rights to our intellectual property. In addition, our collaboration agreements may have provisions that give rise to disputes regarding the respective rights and obligations of the parties, including the rights of collaborators with respect to our internal programs and disease area research. Any conflict with or among our collaborators could lead to the termination of our collaborative agreements, delay collaborative activities, impair our ability to renew agreements or obtain future collaboration agreements or result in litigation or arbitration and would negatively impact our relationship with existing collaborators. If our collaborators fail to develop or commercialize any of our compounds or product candidates, we would not receive any future royalties or milestone payments for such compounds or product candidates. We have limited or no control over the resources that our collaborators may choose to devote to our joint efforts. Our collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or fail to perform their contractual obligations. Also, our collaboration agreements may be subject to early termination by mutual agreement. Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop products arising out of our collaboration arrangements, may experience financial difficulties, may undertake business combinations or significant changes in business strategy that 27 Table of Contents adversely affect their willingness or ability to complete their obligations under any arrangement with us or may fail to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of such products. Certain of our collaborators could also become competitors in the future. If our collaborators develop competing products, preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors, fail to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, terminate their agreements with us prematurely or fail to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of our products, our product development efforts could be delayed or otherwise adversely effected and may fail to lead to commercialized products. If third parties upon which we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties we do not control such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. We lack the capability to manufacture compounds for clinical trials and rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates, and we may be unable to obtain required material in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at a quality level required to receive regulatory approval. We currently do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to enable us to produce materials for our clinical trials. We rely on collaborators and third-party contractors to produce our compounds for preclinical and clinical testing. These suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon these third-party manufacturers may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality level or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing third-party manufacturing arrangements, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our third-party manufacturers could terminate or decline to renew our manufacturing arrangements based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are unable to contract for the production of materials in sufficient quantity and of sufficient quality on acceptable terms, our clinical trials may be delayed. Delays in preclinical or clinical testing could delay the filing of our INDs and the initiation of clinical trials. Our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the GMP regulations, other applicable FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulations applicable outside of the United States. Additionally, if we are required to enter into new supply arrangements, we may not be able to obtain approval from the FDA of any alternate supplier in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of any related product candidates. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to obtain approval from the FDA or to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, civil penalties, delays in or failure to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, injunctions, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products and compounds, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a significant adverse affect on our business. 28 Table of Contents Materials necessary to manufacture some of our compounds currently under development may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay our development and commercialization of these compounds. Some of the materials necessary for the manufacture of our compounds under development may, from time to time, be available either in limited quantities, or from a limited number of manufacturers, or both. Our contract manufacturers need to obtain these materials for our clinical trials and, potentially, for commercial distribution when and if we obtain marketing approval for these compounds. Suppliers may not sell us these materials at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain the materials needed to conduct our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed, adversely affecting our ability to develop the product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable to obtain critical manufacturing materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for a product candidate, the commercial launch of that product candidate could be delayed or there could be a shortage in supply, which could materially affect our ability to generate revenues from that product candidate. If suppliers increase the price of manufacturing materials, the price for one or more of our products may increase, which may make our products less competitive in the marketplace. If it becomes necessary to change suppliers for any of these materials or if any of our suppliers experience a shutdown or disruption at the facilities used to produce these materials, due to technical, regulatory or other reasons, it could harm our ability to manufacture our products. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates Our product candidates are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. Our product candidates, as well as the activities associated with their research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate would prevent us from commercializing that product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Before a new drug application can be filed with the FDA, the product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and may require substantial expenditures. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results. The regulatory process also requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval periods of our product candidates may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another country approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Commercialization of Products The commercial success of any products that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, health care payors, private health insurers and the medical community. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which these products gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues, if at all, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our products in comparison to competing products; • the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenues. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. Developing a sales and marketing force would be expensive and time-consuming, could delay any product launch, and we may never be able to develop this capacity. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to provide sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenues. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for our products will be available from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations. Many patients will not be capable of paying themselves for some or all of the products that we may develop and will rely on third-party payors to pay for, or subsidize, their medical needs. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payors provide some coverage or reimbursement for our products, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. A primary trend in the United States health care industry is toward cost containment. In December 2003, President Bush signed into law legislation creating a prescription drug benefit program for Medicare recipients. The new prescription drug program may have the effect of reducing the prices that we are able to charge for 30 Table of Contents products we develop and sell through plans under the program. The new prescription drug program may also cause third-party payors other than the federal government, including the states under the Medicaid program, to discontinue coverage for products we develop or to lower the price that they will pay. In addition, members of the United States Congress have stated their desire to reduce the government’s cost for reimbursements of prescription drugs by amending this legislation. State Medicaid programs generally have outpatient prescription drug coverage, subject to state regulatory restrictions, for the population eligible for Medicaid. The availability of coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. Another development that may affect the pricing of drugs is proposed congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 gives discretion to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allow drug reimportation into the United States under some circumstances from foreign countries, including countries where the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation, which would allow direct reimportation under certain circumstances. If legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, it could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop, thereby negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement and/or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in the commercialization of our product candidates. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Our competitors may develop products and technologies that make our products and technologies obsolete. The biotechnology industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by rapid technological change. In particular, the area of kinase-targeted therapies is a rapidly evolving and competitive field. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. Some of our competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets, including some of our existing collaborators. In addition, significant delays in the development of our product candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us, which would impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Any products that are developed through our technologies will compete in highly competitive markets. Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and marketing capabilities. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies and products, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, there may be product candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our product candidates. 31 Table of Contents We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. If any of these product candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as and when we deem appropriate. However, these applications may be challenged or may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our product candidates. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages, if, for example, others were the first to invent or to file patent applications for these inventions. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information 32 Table of Contents will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our commercial success depends in part upon our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not to breach any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies. Other parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering genes and gene fragments, techniques and methodologies relating to model systems and products and technologies that we have developed or intend to develop. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may require us to pay substantial royalties, grant a cross-license to some of our patents to another patent holder or redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that we do not infringe third-party patents, which may be impossible to obtain or could require substantial time and expense. Third parties may accuse us of employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that use of such technologies infringes on their patents. Regardless of their merit, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of management and technical personnel, in defending ourselves against any such claims or enforcing our patents. In the event that a successful claim of infringement is brought against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to Employees, Growth and Location The loss of key personnel or the inability to retain and, where necessary, attract additional personnel could impair our ability to expand our operations. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives and the continuation of existing collaborations. Also, we do not currently have sufficient clinical development personnel to fully execute our business plan. Retaining and, where necessary, recruiting qualified clinical and scientific personnel will be critical to support activities related to advancing our clinical and preclinical development programs, and supporting our collaborative arrangements and our internal proprietary research and development efforts. Competition is intense for experienced clinical personnel, and we may be unable to retain or recruit clinical 33 Table of Contents personnel with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to pursue collaborations, develop our products and core technologies or expand our operations to the extent otherwise possible. Further, all of our employees are employed “at will” and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although these advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In such a circumstance, we may lose work performed by them, and our development efforts with respect to the matters on which they were working maybe significantly delayed or otherwise adversely affected. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Difficulties we may encounter managing our growth may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have experienced a period of rapid and substantial growth that has placed, and our anticipated growth in the future will continue to place, a strain on our research, development, administrative and operational infrastructure. We will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to improve our reporting systems and procedures as well as our operational, financial and management controls. In addition, rules and regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission have increased the internal control and regulatory requirements under which we operate. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner to meet future requirements. Our headquarters are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could harm our operations. Our headquarters are located in South San Francisco, California, and therefore our facilities are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We currently do not carry earthquake insurance. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures, terrorism and similar events since any insurance we may maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may face liability for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and such liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. We face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage. We may be held liable if any product we or our collaborators develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, substantial monetary awards to trial participants and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and business and would decrease our cash reserves. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which we cannot control, could subject our operating results and stock price to volatility, including: • recognition of upfront licensing or other fees or revenue; • payments of non-refundable upfront or licensing fees, or payment for cost-sharing expenses, to third parties; • acceptance of our technologies and platforms; 35 Table of Contents • the success rate of our discovery efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties; • the introduction of new technologies or products by our competitors; • the timing and willingness of collaborators to commercialize our products; • our ability to enter into new collaborative relationships; • the termination or non-renewal of existing collaborations; • the timing and amount of expenses incurred for clinical development and manufacturing of our product candidates; • the impairment of acquired goodwill and other assets; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our collaborators’ research and development expenditures. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed in the short term. If our revenues decline or do not grow as anticipated due to the expiration or termination of existing contracts, our failure to obtain new contracts or our inability to meet milestones or because of other factors, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenues could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. As a result, in some future quarters, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our stock price may be extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following, many of which we cannot control: • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of our or our collaborators’ product candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators’ or our competitors’ clinical trials; • the announcement of new products by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • conflicts or litigation with our collaborators; • litigation, including intellectual property infringement and product liability lawsuits, involving us; • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • financing transactions; • developments in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry; • sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • departures of key personnel or board members; • developments concerning current or future collaborations; • FDA or international regulatory actions; 36 Table of Contents • third-party reimbursement policies; • acquisitions of other companies or technologies; • disposition of any of our subsidiaries, technologies or compounds; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with the stock of many other public companies, the market price of our common stock has been particularly volatile during the recent period of upheaval in the capital markets and world economy. This excessive volatility may continue for an extended period of time following the filing date of this report. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees; • the potential loss of key collaborators; • lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; and • acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us, and their interests could conflict with the best interests of our other stockholders. Due to their combined stock holdings, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock), acting together, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate 37 Table of Contents transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that would not be widely viewed as beneficial. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent or deter attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, a change in control, or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our current Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 