ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report. We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor calls and webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as “strategy,” “expects,” “continues,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “will,” “estimates,” “intends,” “projects,” “goals,” “targets” and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Alliance One International, Inc. securities. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important risk factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time. Risks Relating to Our Operations Global shifts in sourcing customer requirements may negatively impact our organizational structure and asset base. The global leaf tobacco industry is experiencing shifts in the sourcing of customer requirements for tobacco. For example, significant tobacco production volume decreases have occurred and may continue to occur in the United States, Zimbabwe and Western Europe from historical levels. At the same time, production volumes in other sourcing origins, such as Brazil and other areas of Africa, are stabilizing. Additional shifts in sourcing may occur as a result of currency fluctuations, including devaluation of the U.S. dollar. A shift in sourcing origins in Europe has been influenced by modifications to the tobacco price support system in the European Union (EU). Customer requirements are changing due to these variations in production, therefore influencing our ability to plan effectively for the longer term in Europe. We may not be able to timely or efficiently adjust to these shifts in sourcing origins, and adjusting to these shifts may require changes in our production facilities in certain origins and changes in our fixed asset base. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, restructuring charges as we continue to adjust to these shifts in sourcing. Adjusting our capacity and adjusting to these shifts in sourcing may have an adverse impact on our ability to manage our costs, and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our financial results will vary according to growing conditions, customer indications and other factors, which reduces your ability to gauge our quarterly and annual financial performance. Our financial results, particularly the quarterly financial results, may be significantly affected by fluctuations in tobacco growing seasons and crop sizes which affect the supply of tobacco. The cultivation period for tobacco is dependent upon a number of factors, including the weather and other natural events, such as hurricanes or tropical storms, and our processing schedule and results of operations can be significantly altered by these factors. We have experienced higher costs of acquiring tobacco due to smaller crop sizes and increased competition in certain markets in which we purchase tobacco. In Malawi, a smaller 2007 crop and increased competition in the Malawi market increased green tobacco costs at auction by almost 100%. Processing and overhead costs also increased in Malawi. Furthermore, short crops in periods of high demand translate into higher average green prices, higher throughput costs and less volume to sell. Further, the timing and unpredictability of customer indications, orders and shipments cause us to keep tobacco in inventory, increase our risk and result in variations in quarterly and annual financial results. The timing of shipments can be materially impacted by shortages of containers and vessels for shipping as well as infrastructure and accessibility issues in ports we use for shipment. For example, shortages in shipping containers was a major factor in shipping delays in Brazil during our 2006 fiscal year. In the prior fiscal year, infrastructure and accessibility issues have materially delayed shipments from the African port of Beira, from which we ship much of the tobacco we source in Malawi and other African origins. We may from time to time in the ordinary course of business keep a significant amount of processed tobacco in inventory for our customers to accommodate their inventory management and other needs. Sales recognition by us and our subsidiaries is based on the passage of ownership, usually with shipment of product. Because individual shipments may represent significant amounts of revenue, our quarterly and annual financial results may vary significantly depending on our customers’ needs and shipping instructions. These fluctuations result in varying volumes and sales in given periods, which also reduces your ability to compare our financial results in different periods or in the same periods in different years. Farmers who have historically grown tobacco and from whom we have purchased tobacco have recently begun to grow other items instead of tobacco, which affects the world supply of tobacco and may impact our quarterly and annual financial performance. In recent years, prices for crops other than tobacco, such as corn and soybeans, have increased dramatically, and farmers who have historically grown tobacco, and from whom we have purchased tobacco, have recently begun to grow these other, more profitable items instead of tobacco. A decrease in the volume of tobacco available for purchase may increase the purchase price of such tobacco. As a result, we could experience an increase in acquisition costs which may impact our quarterly and annual financial performance. Our extension of credit to tobacco growers could expose us to losses. We make advances to tobacco growers in many countries to finance their growing of tobacco for sale to us. Crop advances to growers are generally secured by the grower’s agreement to deliver green tobacco. In the event of crop failure, recovery of advances could be delayed until deliveries of future crops or indefinitely. The temporary or permanent loss of these advances to growers could result in losses. When we purchase tobacco directly from growers, we bear the risk that the tobacco will not meet our customers’ quality and quantity requirements. In countries where we contract directly with tobacco growers, including Argentina, Brazil, the United States and certain African countries, we bear the risk that the tobacco delivered will not meet quality and quantity requirements of our customers. If the tobacco does not meet such market requirements, we may not be able to sell the tobacco we agreed to buy and may not be able to meet all of our customers’ orders, which would have an adverse effect on profitability and results of operations. Weather and other conditions can affect the marketability of our inventory. Like other agricultural products, the quality of tobacco is affected by weather and the environment, which can change the quality or size of the crop. If a weather event is particularly severe, such as a major drought or hurricane, the affected crop could be destroyed or damaged to an extent that it would be less desirable to our customers, which would result in a reduction in revenues. If such an event is also widespread, it could affect our ability to acquire the quantity of products required by customers. In addition, other items can affect the marketability of tobacco, including, among other things, the presence of: · non-tobacco related material; · genetically modified organisms; and · excess residues of pesticides, fungicides and herbicides. A significant event impacting the condition or quality of a large amount of any of the tobacco crops we buy could make it difficult for us to sell such tobacco or to fill our customers’ orders. Our reliance on a small number of significant customers may adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers are manufacturers of cigarette and other tobacco products. Several of these customers individually account for a significant portion of our sales in a normal year. Approximately 33%, 34% and 34%, respectively, of our consolidated tobacco sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, were to various tobacco customers which are owned by or under common control of Altria Group, Inc. and approximately 22%, 19% and 18%, respectively, were to various tobacco customers which are owned by or under common control of Japan Tobacco, Inc. No other customer accounts for more than 10% of our sales. In addition, tobacco product manufacturers are experiencing consolidation and further consolidation among our customers could decrease such customers’ demand for our leaf tobacco or processing services. The loss of any one or more of such customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face increased risks of doing business due to the extent of our international operations. We do business in more than 45 countries, many of which do not have stable economies or governments. Our international operations are subject to international business risks, including unsettled political conditions, expropriation, import and export restrictions, exchange controls, inflationary economies, currency risks and risks related to the restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from liquidated assets of foreign subsidiaries. These risks are exacerbated in countries where we have advanced substantial sums or guaranteed local loans or lines of credit for the purchase of tobacco from growers. We have expanded our international operations in areas where the export of tobacco has increased due to increased demand for lower priced tobacco. We have significant investments in our purchasing, processing and exporting operations in Argentina, Brazil, Malawi, Tanzania and Turkey. In recent years, economic problems in Zimbabwe and Brazil have received wide publicity related to devaluation and appreciation of the local currency and inflation. Devaluation and appreciation can affect our purchase costs of tobacco and our processing costs. Zimbabwe remains in a period of civil unrest and has a deteriorating economy. At March 31, 2006, as a result of the political environment, economic instability, foreign currency controls and governmental regulations, we deconsolidated our subsidiaries and recorded an impairment charge of $47.9 million to reduce our investment in Zimbabwe to its estimated fair value. Governmental authorization is required before any dividends can be paid from a Zimbabwe operation. Our Zimbabwe operations had tried unsuccessfully to pay dividends in prior years due to certain unattainable criteria set by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe and the government not granting the necessary authorizations. We do not consider any further dividends from our Zimbabwe subsidiary in the near future a possibility. Economic and political conditions continued to decline in fiscal 2007 and 2008 as inflation, lending rates and investment rates have deteriorated. General farming operations are being negatively impacted by the lack of foreign exchange to buy crop inputs and fuel. As a result, several significant operational changes were made including the closure of the Zimbabwe processing factory, outsourcing the 2006 crop tobacco processing and a significant reduction in permanent personnel. During fiscal 2007, we evaluated the fair value of the Zimbabwe operations and determined that the net investment in the Zimbabwe operations exceeded the estimated fair value. Accordingly, we recorded an additional non-cash impairment charge of $13.2 million to write down the net investment in the Zimbabwe operations to zero. Notwithstanding the foregoing conditions, we continue to provide advances for the purchase of tobacco in Zimbabwe and these advances may be subject to a risk of loss. We are subject to potentially inconsistent actions by the governments of certain foreign countries in which we operate which may have a significant impact on our financial results. For example, in 2006, our concession to promote tobacco production in the Chifunde district of Mozambique was terminated by the government. Thereafter, we assessed our remaining Mozambique operations without the Chifunde district and determined that it was not in our economic interest to remain in Mozambique without this strategic district. Consequently, we discontinued our operations within Mozambique after the 2006 crop. Our exposure to changes in foreign tax regimes could adversely impact our business. We do business in countries that have tax regimes in which the rules are not clear, are not consistently applied and are subject to sudden change. This is especially true with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by the uncertain and changing nature of these tax regimes. Effective January 1, 2005, the government of Rio Grande do Sul, the state in which our subsidiaries operate in Brazil, adopted changes in their Imposto Sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias e Servicos (“ICMS”), a tax on the transfer of goods and services between states within Brazil. Prior to this change, our transfers of leaf tobacco and processed tobacco inventory between states in Brazil was taxed, but these transfers generated tax credits that were used to offset ICMS tax obligations or were transferred to third parties. Pursuant to the change, the credits generated from the payment of ICMS taxes could not be used to reduce the overall tax exposure by third parties by more than 10% of the generating company’s tax liability in any tax year, severely reducing the ability to sell excess tax credits to others. In conjunction with this change, we recorded a reserve against the $25.1 million of ICMS credits recorded as a receivable as of March 31, 2006. This reserve remained as we entered into negotiations with the government of Rio Grande do Sul. Effective on May 23, 2006, we entered into an agreement with the government of Rio Grande do Sul which provided for the sale of a certain amount of ICMS credits each month through 2011. Based on our evaluation of the agreement and the ability to sell ICMS credits to third parties each month, the reserve was reversed during the quarter ended June 30, 2006 as it related to inventory that had already been sold. On January 1, 2007, a new government took office in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The government requested a review of the terms to the agreement entered into in May 23, 2006. In March 2007, we renegotiated the terms related to the ICMS credits that the government will allow to be sold to third parties on a monthly basis. On October 26, 2007, the government in the Brazilian State of Parana issued a tax assessment with respect to local intrastate trade tax credits that result primarily from tobacco transferred between states within Brazil. The assessment for intrastate trade tax credits taken is approximately $7.5 million and the total assessment including penalties and interest through March 31, 2008 is approximately $13.2 million. The assessment represents intrastate trade tax credit amounts which were offset against intrastate trade tax receivables. We believe we have properly complied with Brazilian law and will contest any assessment through the judicial process. Should we lose in the judicial process, the loss of the intrastate trade tax credits would have a material impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. We conduct our business in many countries around the world. Our business is generally conducted in U.S. dollars, as is the business of the leaf tobacco industry as a whole. However, we generally must purchase tobacco in non-U.S. countries using local currency. As a result, local country operating costs, including the purchasing and processing costs for tobaccos, are subject to the effects of exchange fluctuations of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. When the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, our costs for purchasing and processing tobacco in such currencies increases. We attempt to minimize such currency risks by matching the timing of our working capital borrowing needs against the tobacco purchasing and processing funds requirements in the currency of the country where the tobacco is grown. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies can significantly affect our operating results. In particular, the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real has recently increased the cost of our inventory and operating costs generally in Brazil, only a portion of which can be passed on to our customers. As the international leaf industry continues to place greater emphasis on Brazil, the weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Brazilian real will increasingly impact our consolidated operating results and operating margins, and we do not foresee a reversal of this trend occurring in the immediate future. In addition, the historically weak real in relation to the dollar has tended to offset the normal escalation in crop prices in Brazil, which will have a more significant impact to the extent the real is stronger against the dollar. In recent years, economic problems in Zimbabwe have resulted in significant devaluation of the local currency and inflation. If we are unable to minimize Zimbabwe currency risk by effectively matching the timing of our working capital borrowing needs against the tobacco purchasing and processing funds requirements in the local currency then devaluation can have a material affect on our tobacco purchase and processing costs. In addition, the devaluation of foreign currencies, particularly Asian and Eastern European currencies, has resulted and may in the future result in reduced purchasing power from customers in these areas. We may incur a loss of business as a result of the devaluation of these currencies now or in the future. Competition could erode our earnings. The leaf tobacco industry is highly competitive. We are one of two global competitors in the leaf tobacco industry, each with approximately equal market share. Competition is based primarily on the prices charged for products and services as well as the merchant’s ability to meet customer specifications in the buying, processing and financing of tobacco. In addition, there is competition in all countries to buy the available tobacco. The loss or substantial reduction of any large or significant customer could reduce our earnings. In addition to the two primary global independent leaf tobacco merchants, the cigarette manufacturers increasingly buy tobacco directly from farmers, and new independent leaf merchants are entering the leaf purchasing and processing business. We face increasing competition from new local and regional independent leaf merchants with low fixed costs and overhead and good customer connections at the local level. These new independent merchants are buying an increasing portion of the crops in certain international markets, particularly Brazil, where the new entrants have been able to capitalize in the global transition to that market. In the United States, the Flue-Cured Tobacco Stabilization Cooperative (“FCTSC”) has purchased the Vector facility in Roxboro, North Carolina. That facility enables the FCTSC to process tobacco and manufacture cigarettes. The FCTSC also has a specialty products operation at this facility which competes with our specialty products operations. In addition, the FCTSC and burley stabilization pools received inventory in lieu of cash from the Commodity Credit Corporation under the congressional quota buyout bill. Any of these sources of new competition may result in less tobacco available for us to purchase and process in the applicable markets. Our adoption and application of certain standards in financial accounting could cause our annual and quarterly financial results to vary and will reduce your ability to gauge our performance, increasing the risk of an investment in our securities. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 prescribes a “more likely than not” threshold for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, accounting for income taxes in interim periods, and income tax disclosures. FIN 48 requires us to establish reserves for uncertain tax positions if it is not “more likely than not” that we will prevail on the merits if audited and challenged. FIN 48 was applicable to us beginning April 1, 2007. FIN 48 has had and could have a material impact on our financial performance in the future because we do business in countries that do not have clear tax rules concerning transfer pricing and other tax matters. This lack of clarity in the tax rules creates uncertainty which cannot be easily analyzed or predicted. As a result, we may have tax presence liabilities that could give rise to accruals under FIN 48 that will never reverse. In addition, we adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” effective July 1, 2002. As a result of adoption of SFAS No. 142, we no longer amortize goodwill. However, if we determine that there has been a material impairment to goodwill, we will recognize the amount of that impairment as a charge to earnings in the applicable reporting period. As a result of certain reporting units failing Step 1 during our 2006 annual test for impairment of goodwill, we measured the impairment loss, if any, by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit with the carrying amount of goodwill (Step 2). The fair value of the reporting unit was estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows. Based on this analysis we recorded a total goodwill impairment charge of $256.9 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 related to the operating segments of North America and South America. We have identified several material weaknesses related to our internal control over financial reporting existing at the 2008 fiscal year end as well as in prior periods, and there can be no assurance that we have successfully remedied our material weaknesses in internal control over financing reporting or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified. As a result of our testing of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended March 31, 2008, we identified certain matters involving our internal control over financial reporting that we and our registered public accounting firm determined to be material weaknesses under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. These material weaknesses related to: · accounting for income taxes; and · maintaining a sufficient complement of personnel in certain operating locations with an appropriate level of technical accounting knowledge, experience, or training to communicate to corporate financial reporting management or determine proper application of GAAP to various complex financial accounting and reporting requirements, including farmer advance financing, pensions and postretirement plans and other technical accounting matters. We have described these matters in more detail in Item 9A herein. We have also identified other material weaknesses at previous fiscal year and fiscal quarter ends. As a result of these material weaknesses, we have had to restate our financial statements periodically, including all quarterly reports for fiscal year 2007 and the second quarterly report in fiscal 2008. Although we have attempted to remedy the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting identified by implementing a number of actions aimed at strengthening our financial reporting processes, we cannot assure you that the remedial measures we have taken will adequately address the identified material weaknesses or that other material weaknesses will not occur. Moreover, we have only recently implemented processes to address the material weaknesses identified. We will continue to take further remedial actions to improve our internal control over financial reporting in order to continue to meet the requirements for being a public company, including the rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, but there can be no assurance that the improvements we have made or will make will be sufficient to ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in misstatements in our financial statements in amounts that could be material. Inferior internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock and could also require additional restatements of our prior reported financial information. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure We may not continue to have access to the capital markets to obtain long-term and short-term financing on acceptable terms and conditions. From time to time we access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that we can continue to access the capital markets in fiscal 2009 on acceptable terms and conditions, our access and the availability of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings; (ii) the liquidity and volatility of the overall capital markets, which has been negatively impacted by the U.S. sub-prime debt turmoil; and (iii) the current state of the economy, including the tobacco industry. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. We may not have access to available capital to finance our local operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions. We have typically financed our non-U.S. local operations with uncommitted short term operating credit lines at the local level. These operating lines are typically seasonal in nature, normally extending for a term of 180 to 270 days corresponding to the tobacco crop cycle in that location. These facilities are typically uncommitted in that the lenders have the right to cease making loans or demand payment of outstanding loans at any time. In addition, each of these operating lines must be renewed with each tobacco crop season in that jurisdiction. Although our foreign subsidiaries are the borrowers under these lines, many of them are guaranteed by us. As of March 31, 2008, we had approximately $387.2 million drawn and outstanding on foreign seasonal lines totaling $722.4 million. Additionally against these lines there was $28.6 million available in unused letter of credit capacity with $22.2 million issued but unfunded. Because the lenders under these operating lines typically have the right to cancel the loan at any time and each line must be renewed with each crop season, there can be no assurance that this capital will be available to our subsidiaries. If a number of these lenders cease lending to our subsidiaries or dramatically decrease such lending, it could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity. Failure of foreign banks in which our subsidiaries deposit funds or the failure to transfer funds or honor withdrawals may affect our results of operations. Funds held by our foreign subsidiaries are often deposited in their local banks. Banks in certain foreign jurisdictions may be subject to a higher rate of failure or may not honor withdrawals of deposited funds. In addition, the countries in which these local banks operate may lack sufficient regulatory oversight or suffer from structural weaknesses in the local banking system. Due to uncertainties and risks relating to the political stability of certain foreign governments, these local banks also may be subject to exchange controls and therefore unable to perform transfers of certain currencies. If our ability to gain access to these funds was impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have substantial debt which may adversely affect us by limiting future sources of financing, interfering with our ability to pay interest and principal on the notes and subjecting us to additional risks. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and debt service obligations. As of March 31, 2008, we had approximately $970.2 million of indebtedness. In addition, the indenture governing the notes allows us to incur additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. If we add new indebtedness to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Our substantial debt will have important consequences, including: · that our indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other obligations; · that our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms and to otherwise fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt refinancing, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; · that a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to paying interest on and the repayment of the principal of our indebtedness. This reduces the amount of cash we have available for making principal and interest payments under the notes and for other purposes and makes us more vulnerable to a decrease in demand for leaf tobacco, increases in our operating costs or general economic or industry conditions; · that our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and to compete with other global leaf tobacco merchants may be hampered by the amount of debt we owe; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities. In addition, the indenture governing the notes and our senior secured credit facility each contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Also, a substantial portion of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could exacerbate further the risks associated with our significant leverage. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the notes will restrict, but will not completely prohibit, us from doing so. Our senior secured credit facility provides for a $250.0 million revolving credit line. There were no borrowings under this facility at March 31, 2008. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify. The indentures governing the notes and our senior secured credit facility contain, and in the future could contain additional, covenants and tests that limit our ability to take actions or cause us to take actions we may not normally take. The indentures governing the notes and our senior secured credit facility contain a number of significant covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · issue preferred stock; · merge, consolidate or dispose of substantially all of our assets; · grant liens on our assets; · pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions or restricted payments; · repurchase or redeem capital stock or prepay subordinated debt; · make certain investments; · agree to restrictions on the payment of dividends to us by our subsidiaries; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; · enter into transactions with our affiliates; and · enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures require us to meet certain financial tests. Complying with these covenants and tests may cause us to take actions that we otherwise would not take or not take actions that we otherwise would take. The failure to comply with these covenants and tests would cause a default under the credit facility and, under the indenture, would prevent us from taking certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, paying dividends or redeeming senior notes or subordinated debt. A default, if not waived, could result in the debt under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture becoming immediately due and payable and could result in a default or acceleration of our other indebtedness with cross-default provisions. If this occurs, we may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. We have had to obtain waivers and amendments under our existing financing arrangements to avoid future defaults or cure past defaults. In the recent past, we have sought and obtained waivers and amendments under our existing financing arrangements to avoid future non-compliance with financial covenants and cure past defaults under restrictive covenants. We also paid significant fees to obtain these waivers and consents. You should consider this in evaluating our ability to comply with restrictive covenants in our debt instruments and the financial costs of our ability to do so. Any future defaults for which we do not obtain waivers or amendments could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our indebtedness, much of which is cross-defaulted to other indebtedness. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facility or the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, to the extent permitted under our senior secured credit agreement and indentures, we may repurchase, repay or tender for our bank debt, senior notes or senior subordinated notes, which may place pressure on future cash requirements to the extent that the debt repurchased, repaid or tendered cannot be redrawn. If we refinance our current credit facilities, we may not be able to obtain the same credit availability or at interest rates similar to our current credit facilities. If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to refinance our current credit facilities on similar or better terms than our current credit facility. Risks Relating to the Tobacco Industry Reductions in demand for consumer tobacco products could adversely affect our results of operations. The tobacco industry, both in the United States and abroad, continues to face a number of issues that may reduce the consumption of cigarettes and adversely affect our business, sales volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These issues, some of which are more fully discussed below, include: · governmental actions seeking to ascribe to tobacco product manufacturers liability for adverse health effects associated with smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; · smoking and health litigation against tobacco product manufacturers; · tax increases on consumer tobacco products; · current and potential actions by state attorneys general to enforce the terms of the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, between state governments in the United States and tobacco product manufacturers; · governmental and private bans and restrictions on smoking; · actual and proposed price controls and restrictions on imports in certain jurisdictions outside the United States; · restrictions on tobacco product manufacturing, marketing, advertising and sales; · the diminishing social acceptance of smoking; · increased pressure from anti-smoking groups; · other tobacco product legislation that may be considered by Congress, the states, municipalities and other countries; and · the impact of consolidation among multinational cigarette manufacturers. Tobacco product manufacturer litigation may reduce demand for our services. Our primary customers, the leading cigarette manufacturers, face thousands of lawsuits brought throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, the rest of the world. The effects of the lawsuits on our customers could reduce their demand for tobacco from us. These lawsuits have been brought by plaintiffs, including (1) individuals and classes of individuals alleging personal injury and/or misleading advertising, (2) governments (including governmental and quasi-governmental entities in the United States and abroad) seeking recovery of health care costs allegedly caused by cigarette smoking, and (3) other groups seeking recovery of health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking, including third-party health care payors, such as unions and health maintenance organizations. Damages claimed in some of the smoking and health cases range into the billions of dollars. The United States Department of Justice is currently engaged in a lawsuit against the leading cigarette manufacturers, seeking to recover billions of dollars. There have been several jury verdicts in tobacco product litigation during the past several years. Additional plaintiffs continue to file lawsuits. In November 1998, certain United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states and certain territories to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. These manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota and an environmental tobacco smoke and health class action brought on behalf of airline flight attendants. The MSA has received final judicial approval in all 52 settling jurisdictions. The MSA and other state settlement agreements include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of industry documents, limitations on challenges to tobacco product control and underage use laws, lobbying activities and other provisions. The provisions of the Master Settlement Agreement and any similar settlement agreements could have a material adverse impact on our customers’ purchases from us. Legislative and regulatory initiatives could reduce consumption of consumer tobacco products and demand for our services. In recent years, members of Congress have introduced legislation, some of which has been the subject of hearings or floor debate, that would subject cigarettes to various regulations under the Department of Health and Human Services or regulation under the Consumer Products Safety Act, establish anti-smoking educational campaigns or anti-smoking programs, provide additional funding for governmental anti-smoking activities, further restrict the advertising of cigarettes, including requiring additional warnings on packages and in advertising, provide that the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and the Smoking Education Act could not be used as a defense against liability under state statutory or common law, or allow state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes and eliminate or reduce the tax deductibility of tobacco product advertising. If any or all of the foregoing were to be implemented, our business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Reports with respect to the harmful physical effects of cigarette smoking have been publicized for many years, and the sale, promotion and use of cigarettes continue to be subject to increasing governmental regulation. Since 1964, the Surgeon General of the United States and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have released a number of reports linking cigarette smoking with a broad range of health hazards, including various types of cancer, coronary heart disease and chronic lung disease, and recommending various governmental measures to reduce the incidence of smoking. More recent reports focus upon the addictive nature of cigarettes, the effects of smoking cessation, the decrease in smoking in the United States, the economic and regulatory aspects of smoking in the Western Hemisphere, and cigarette smoking by adolescents, particularly the addictive nature of cigarette smoking in adolescence. A number of foreign nations also have taken steps to restrict or prohibit cigarette advertising and promotion, to increase taxes on cigarettes and to discourage cigarette smoking. In some cases, such restrictions are more onerous than those in the United States. For example, advertising and promotion of cigarettes has been banned or severely restricted for a number of years in Australia, Canada, Finland, France, Italy, Singapore and other countries. Further, in May of 2003, the World Health Organization adopted a treaty, the Framework Convention for Tobacco Control, which requires signatory nations to enact legislation that would require, among other things, specific actions to prevent youth smoking; restrict or prohibit tobacco product marketing; inform the public about the health consequences of smoking and the benefits of quitting; regulate the content of tobacco products; impose new package warning requirements including the use of pictorial or graphic images; eliminate cigarette smuggling and counterfeit cigarettes; restrict smoking in public places; increase and harmonize cigarette excise taxes; abolish duty-free tobacco sales; and permit and encourage litigation against tobacco product manufacturers. The treaty will take effect after forty countries ratify it and must be implemented by national laws in the ratifying nations. To date, 168 parties have signed the treaty, and 144 countries are parties to the treaty. Due to the present regulatory and legislative environment, a substantial risk exists that past growth trends in tobacco product sales may not continue and that existing sales may decline. We have been, and continue to be, subject to governmental investigations into, and litigation concerning, leaf tobacco industry buying practices. The leaf tobacco industry, from time to time, has been the subject of government investigations regarding trade practices. For example, in 1998 we were the subject of an investigation by the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice into certain buying practices alleged to have occurred in the industry. More recently, we were named defendants in the DeLoach, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. et al., antitrust class action litigation alleging a conspiracy to rig bids in the tobacco auction markets. We, along with all but one of the other defendants, entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs which received final approval, and which accorded us a full release from all the claims. In exchange for such settlement, we contributed $13.0 million towards a larger total settlement agreement. In October 2001, the Directorate General for Competition (DGCOMP) of the European Commission (EC) began an administrative investigation into certain tobacco buying and selling practices alleged to have occurred within the leaf tobacco industry in some countries within the European Union, including Spain, Italy, Greece and potentially other countries. Our subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Greece have been subject to these investigations. In 2004, the EC fined us and our Spanish subsidiaries €4.4 million ($5.7 million) solely relating to the investigations in Spain. In respect of the Italian investigation, in October 2005, the EC announced that we and Mindo (our former subsidiary) have been assessed a fine in the aggregate amount of €10.0 million ($12.0 million) and that, in addition, we and Transcatab, a subsidiary of Standard prior to its merger into DIMON, have been assessed a fine in the aggregate amount of €14.0 million ($16.8 million). Several tobacco processors, growers and agricultural associations that were the subject of the investigation in Italy were assessed fines in various amounts totaling €56.0 million ($67.0 million), inclusive of the fines imposed on us and our subsidiaries. We, along with the applicable subsidiaries, have appealed the decisions of the EC with respect to Spain and Italy to the Court of First Instance of the EC for the annulment or modification of the decision; but the outcome of the appeals process as to both timing and results is uncertain. In March 2005, the EC informed us that it had closed its investigation in relation to the Greek leaf tobacco industry buying and selling practices. In relation to these investigations into certain tobacco buying and selling practices, the DGCOMP could decide to pursue investigations into other countries and additional fines may be assessed in those countries. We have recently been made aware of a review by the Malawi Government of the operation of its tobacco auction markets. Although the Government’s preliminary report suggests that there may have been violations by the leaf dealer industry of certain Malawi competition laws, the review is at an early stage and it is not possible to predict its outcome or its possible impact on us. We will continue to cooperate with the relevant authorities and are conducting our own internal investigation. In March 2004, we discovered potential irregularities with respect to certain bank accounts in southern Europe and central Asia. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged an outside law firm to conduct an investigation of activity relating to these accounts. That investigation revealed that, although the amounts involved were not material and had no material impact on our historical financial statements, there were payments from these accounts that may have violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In May 2004, we voluntarily reported the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice (“Justice”). Soon thereafter, we closed the accounts in question, implemented personnel changes and other measures designed to prevent similar situations in the future, including the addition of new finance and internal audit staff and enhancement of existing training programs, and disclosed these circumstances in our filings with the SEC. In August 2006, we learned that the SEC has issued a formal order of investigation of us and others to determine if these or other actions, including those in other countries in which we do business, may have violated certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder. We are cooperating fully with the SEC with respect to the investigation. In May 2008, we learned that Justice is conducting an investigation into possible violations of federal law stemming from the same actions being investigated by the SEC. If the U.S. authorities determine that there have been violations of federal laws, they may seek to impose sanctions on us that may include, among other things, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices. It is not possible to predict at this time whether the authorities will determine that violations have occurred, and if they do, what sanctions they might seek to impose. It is also not possible to predict how the government’s investigation or any resulting sanctions may impact our business, results of operations or financial performance. Any monetary penalty assessed may be material to our results of operations in the quarter in which it is imposed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 