Item 1A: Risk Factors Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2: Properties Item 3: Legal Proceedings Item 4: Removed and Reserved PART II Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6: Selected Financial Data Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A: Controls and Procedures Item 9B: Other Information PART III Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11: Executive Compensation Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14: Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION CERTAIN STATEMENTS IN THIS REPORT OR DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED IN THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED) THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CAN GENERALLY BE IDENTIFIED AS SUCH BECAUSE THE CONTEXT OF THE STATEMENT WILL INCLUDE WORDS SUCH AS WE "BELIEVE", "ANTICIPATE", "EXPECT" OR WORDS OF SIMILAR IMPORT. SIMILARLY, STATEMENTS THAT DESCRIBE OUR FUTURE PLANS, OBJECTIVES, ESTIMATES OR GOALS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS MADE IN THIS REPORT SHOULD BE READ AS BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL RELATED FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER THEY APPEAR IN THIS REPORT. YOU ARE CAUTIONED THAT ANY SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE NOT GUARANTEES OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE AND INVOLVE RISK AND UNCERTAINTIES, AS WELL AS ASSUMPTIONS THAT IF THEY MATERIALIZE OR PROVE INCORRECT, COULD CAUSE RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FURTHER, ALL STATEMENTS, OTHER THAN STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL FACT, ARE STATEMENTS THAT COULD BE DEEMED FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE ASSUME NO OBLIGATION AND DO NOT INTEND TO UPDATE THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, EXCEPT AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY LAW. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO BE MATERIALLY DIFFERENT FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PRESENTED HEREIN INCLUDE THE RISK FACTORS DISCUSSED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, AS WELL AS THOSE DISCUSSED ELSEWHERE HEREIN. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview ANADIGICS, Inc. (“we” or the “Company”) is a leading provider of semiconductor solutions in the growing broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. Our products include radio frequency (RF) power amplifiers (PAs), tuner integrated circuits, active splitters, line amplifiers and other components, which can be sold individually or packaged as integrated front end modules (FEMs). We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize on the high growth and convergence occurring in the voice, data and video segments of the broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. Our RF power amplifier products enable mobile handsets, datacards and other devices to access third generation (3G) wireless networks utilizing international standards including WCDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access), HSPA (High Speed Packet Access), CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) and EVDO (Evolution Data Optimized). Further, we provide RF power amplifiers for the advanced fourth generation (4G) wireless services including LTE (Long Term Evolution) and WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access). Our WiFi products enable connectivity for wireless mobile devices and other computing devices and our CATV (Cable Television) products enable fixed-point, wireline broadband communications over cable modem and set-top box products, CATV infrastructure and Fiber-To-The-Premises (FTTP). Our business strategy focuses on enabling anytime, anywhere connectivity which enhances the consumer’s broadband and wireless experience. We develop RF front end solutions for communications equipment manufacturers and we partner with industry-leading wireless and wireline chipset providers who incorporate our solutions into their reference designs. Our solutions cost-effectively enhance communications devices by improving RF performance, efficiency, reliability, time-to-market and integration while reducing the size, weight and cost of these products. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1984. Our corporate headquarters are located at 141 Mt. Bethel Road, Warren, New Jersey 07059, and our telephone number at that address is 908-668-5000. We expect our business will benefit in the long-term from three key factors: (1) accelerated use and growth in the established markets for 3G, 4G and CATV products, (2) increasing penetration of newer-generation wireless and wireline broadband communications technology into developing markets worldwide, and (3) an increased demand for our solutions within the latest-generation products in these end markets. We believe that the combination of these factors will enable us to outpace the overall end product unit growth in these broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. For example, multiple higher-performance PAs are increasingly required in new 3G and 4G wireless handsets and smartphones in order to access higher-speed wireless broadband data services being deployed in markets around the world. In addition, changes in network architectures necessary to accommodate a more data-centric usage model demand new types of small-cell wireless base station products that require RF amplifiers better optimized for power efficiency. The greater complexity and more demanding performance required of the infrastructure and subscriber equipment needed for evolving networks, coupled with our selection in several leading reference designs allows us to capitalize on the growth in the 3G and 4G markets. We are positioning our CATV set-top box business to capitalize on the evolution and growth of home gateway products, which provide multi-function capabilities such as DVR (digital video recording), HDTV (high definition television), multi-room access and Internet connectivity by expanding our offering of active splitter products. In addition, we believe that the new generation of cable modems based on the DOCSIS-3.0 (Data over Cable Service Interface Specification 3.0) standard will increase the addressable market for our upstream amplifiers. We anticipate that our new hybrid line amplifier and 75 Ohm gain block products will expand our addressable share of the CATV infrastructure market and we further believe that our infrastructure business will continue to benefit from the adoption of 1 GHz CATV systems worldwide and from RF amplifiers being used in FTTP optical networks. We focus on leveraging our technological knowledge and advantages to be a leading technology-enabler via innovative semiconductor solutions for broadband wireless and wireline communications. We believe our patented InGaP-plus technology, which combines bipolar amplifying structures and pHEMT RF switches on the same die, provides us with a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Additionally, we believe proprietary designs of our HELP™ (High Efficiency at Low Power) power amplifiers provide our customers a competitive advantage by delivering performance required for 3G and 4G devices with lower battery power consumption and longer use time than comparable products in these markets. Our 150mm (six-inch diameter) GaAs (Gallium Arsenide) wafer fabrication facility (fab) located at our corporate headquarters in Warren, New Jersey, has been operational since 1999. Following the 2009 announcement of our hybrid manufacturing strategy and foundry agreement with WIN Semiconductors of Taiwan, we qualified them as a vendor and began product development and are poised to utilize this resource in 2011. Industry Background Wireless 3G and 4G Market The number of wireless handsets designed for 3G and 4G standards like CDMA/EVDO, WCDMA/HSPA and LTE is expected to grow significantly faster than the overall market as these standards become dominant over the next several years. According to Strategy Analytics, annual shipments of all types of 3G and 4G cellular terminals are forecast to grow from 778 million units in 2010 to 1,410 million units by 2014, an 80% increase in four years. As a qualified PA supplier to top-tier handset manufacturers such as Research in Motion (RIM), LG Electronics and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd (Samsung), we believe we are well positioned to benefit from the continuing transition to 3G and 4G wireless technologies. Traditionally, the chipset in a wireless handset required one or two power amplifiers. As wireless operators acquired additional frequency licenses to deploy 3G and 4G networks, requirements for mobile devices that can operate in multiple bands has increased demand for power amplifiers in handsets, datacards and wireless modems. These wireless devices also require PAs with higher power and better linearity to meet more demanding performance specifications. The key drivers of growth in the wireless handset market are: · Deployment of 3G and 4G networks and services. · New subscriber additions in emerging markets. · New features and applications to drive replacements in established markets. · Increased demand for smartphones and converged wireless devices such as tablet computers. · Convergence of voice, data and video services. Wireless handsets and mobile data devices utilize a semiconductor chipset to enable communication with the network. Key components of a wireless semiconductor chipset include a baseband, transceiver and one or more power amplifiers. Each PA boosts the transmitter RF output to deliver enough signal power to enable connection with the radio access network for voice and data throughput. As additional features and functionality are incorporated into wireless handsets to leverage the higher network data rates that enable applications such as high speed data and streaming video services, increasing demands are placed on the handset battery, thereby reducing battery life. The high-performance PA is a critical component in the handset because it directly affects battery life and, consequently, available talk time. We believe our manufacturing processes and design technologies such as HELP™ provide a competitive advantage by enabling us to provide PAs that consume less battery power and extend use time. In addition to wireless handsets and data cards, 3G and 4G capabilities are increasingly being embedded in tablets, in other types of personal computers, and in equipment designed for machine-to-machine (M2M) communication. We are a leading enabler in this market through the use of our power amplifiers in industry standard reference designs such as Qualcomm, Infineon and Marvell, and in embedded wireless modules manufactured by leading providers to this growing market. The 4G wireless standard WiMAX continues to gain momentum worldwide, as commercial mobile broadband wireless networks that use this technology expand and gain subscribers. Clearwire Corporation is already providing nationwide service in the United States to its own subscribers and to Sprint subscribers in many markets. UQ Communications Inc. has announced plans to deploy service throughout Japan within two years, and successful service launches in Korea, Russia, Malaysia and Taiwan all indicate the growth potential of this technology. We supply WiMAX PAs to many equipment makers, and believe that our relationships with leading WiMAX equipment and chipset vendors have positioned us to be one of the market-leading providers of WiMAX PAs in the world. LTE is the 4G standard most widely adopted by the GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) operators’ community. A survey by the GSA (GSM Suppliers Association) in January 2011 identified 180 operators in 70 countries who are investing in the technology, with 64 LTE networks already in service or planned to begin by 2012. According to the GSA, LTE has become the fastest developing mobile system technology ever. The rapid increase in wireless broadband data traffic over the past 3 years is driving the interest in deploying LTE as quickly as possible. ANADIGICS long-standing business relationships with key players in the LTE ecosystem position us well to benefit from the developing demand for LTE-capable power amplifiers as more networks are deployed. A defining benefit of 3G and 4G networks is their ability to provide higher data rate connectivity, in support of data-intensive applications such as large file transfer, streaming video, and other multimedia services. It is anticipated that with today's network architectures, a growing consumer demand for these types of applications will quickly limit user capacity. More prolific use of small-cell base stations in wireless networks will increase coverage and user capacity, and maintain a satisfying user experience. Our manufacturing processes and design technologies enable us to provide PAs optimized for new small-cell wireless infrastructure equipment that will support this transition in wireless networks. Further, WiFi data and video access is taken for granted in today’s wireless world and we offer products that enable connectivity to a great range of wireless mobile devices. The desire for increased functionality and use of dual-band applications continues and our products meet these more sophisticated demands. Our expertise and relationships with key industry participants position us to provide enabling WiFi PAs addressing these advanced demands. Cable Set-Top Box and Cable Modem Markets The markets for CATV set-top boxes and cable modems are being shaped by several key trends. Set-top boxes are incorporating advanced functionality, to leverage the convergence of voice, data and video services over the broadband network, such as DVR, HDTV, wireless internet access, interactive services, home networking and gaming. These new features are driving demand for both new and replacement set-top boxes, including high-end multi-function boxes called gateways. Cisco Systems Inc. (Cisco) and Motorola, Inc., both long-time customers of ANADIGICS for set-top box components, are prominent suppliers of new gateway boxes. We also believe that the rollouts of DTV in China and parts of Europe, and Verizon’s FiOS in the U.S., are contributing to sustained demand for digital set-top boxes. As the cable modem market transitions to the new DOCSIS 3.0 standard, we believe it will provide additional opportunity for our upstream amplifier products. The DOCSIS 3.0 standard uses multiple channels simultaneously and higher RF power levels to provide wider bandwidth and higher data throughput than previous technologies, and we believe that we are well positioned to support this market opportunity. CATV Infrastructure and FTTP We are a leading supplier of 12V and 24V line amplifier radio frequency integrated circuit (RFIC) amplifiers to the CATV infrastructure market. This market shows continuing demand for equipment upgrades as a result of increasing CATV infrastructure bandwidth requirements, the need of cable service providers to offer converged voice, data and video services over their broadband networks, and the increased deployment of CATV fiber nodes. We are participating in these upgrades through our collaboration with industry leaders, and as a result of the rollout of digital cable in China and parts of Europe. We anticipate that line amplifier products in industry-standard packages and new 75 Ohm gain block amplifiers will expand our addressable market for CATV infrastructure. Historically, we have enjoyed long product life cycles in these markets. Additionally, we provide optical network RF amplifiers for use in FTTP equipment. Our Strategy Our objective is creating value through innovative RF and Mixed Signal solutions that enable instantaneous connectivity anytime, anywhere. The key elements of our strategy include: · Expand share in the newest-technology and highest-growth end markets of broadband wireless and wireline. We target the latest-technology, fastest-growing and most sophisticated segments of the wireless and wireline communications markets. These segments offer the largest growth opportunity and the greatest opportunity for semiconductor manufacturers to create and extract value. · Bring innovative RF patented technology to industry-leading products. Our longstanding commitment to innovation in process technology and design has resulted in best-in-class RF products. We strive to provide performance advantages that help our customers deliver differentiated products to market. · Work closely with industry-leading customers and partners. We endeavor to develop close partner-like working relationships with industry leaders in the wireless and broadband markets. These relationships support our technology road-maps and give insight into the most important specifications for next-generation products. · Build upon our operational excellence and further realize economies of scale. Establishing our business as a leading technology enabler and logistical partner for our customers’ long-term demands, requires expert execution resulting in appropriate long-term return. Increased volumes are critical to semiconductor companies and consistent with long-term viability for our business. · Incorporate additional and flexible capacity through co-operation and partnerships. Leveraging third-party capabilities to supplement our existing manufacturing capabilities supports our ability to grow scale while limiting costly further capital investment in manufacturing. These capabilities encompass GaAs and CMOS wafer fabrication, assembly, packaging and test technologies. · Accelerate enhancements to our financial model via increased growth. Over the long term, we seek to increase our gross margins and profitability by focusing on those products and markets where we can achieve a strong market position by deploying our technological leadership, by growing share and volumes and while controlling the growth in our expenses. We intend to focus on supplying products in the following markets for this purpose: (1) 3G standards CDMA/EVDO, WCDMA/HSPA and UMTS, (2) 4G standards LTE and WiMAX, (3) CATV set-top boxes and cable modems, and (4) CATV, Wireless and FTTP infrastructure amplifiers, in growing our market-share and consequent business volumes. Additionally, over the long term, we expect to grow research, development and sales expenses at rates slower than our revenue and gross margins to enable a leveraged increase in profitability dollars and percent return on revenue. Products We classify our revenues based upon the end application of the product in which our integrated circuits are used. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, wireless accounted for approximately 74%, 66% and 60% respectively, of our total net sales, while broadband accounted for approximately 26%, 34% and 40%, respectively, of our total net sales. Wireless Our Wireless product line includes power amplifier modules for CDMA/EVDO, GSM/EDGE, WCDMA/HSPA, LTE and other wireless technologies for mobile handsets and data devices. The following table describes our principal products for these applications: Product Application Power Amplifier (PA) Used in RF transmit chain of wireless handset, smartphone, datacard, or embedded module to amplify uplink signal to base station. HELP™ PA Module (multiple versions) ANADIGICS proprietary High Efficiency at Low Power PA design reduces PA average power consumption in LTE, WCDMA/HSPA and CDMA/EVDO devices. Dual-band PA Modules Two HELP™PAs in a single package that enables operation in different frequencies at lower cost and with less board area versus single-band PAs. Quad-band PA Modules GSM-EDGE PAs that enable operation in GSM frequencies worldwide. Broadband Our Broadband product line encompasses video, voice and data telecommunications systems, consisting of CATV, Wireless Infrastructure and WiMAX/WiFi applications. The following table outlines our principal CATV products and their applications: Product Application CATV Set-Top Box and Cable Modem Products Tuner Upconverters and Downconverters Used to perform signal amplification and frequency conversion in double-conversion video and data tuners. Active Splitters Used to split an incoming signal to feed multiple tuners. Integrated Tuners Used to integrate tuner upconverters, downconverters and synthesizers in a single package. Upstream Amplifiers Used to amplify and control the level of signals in the return path. CATV Infrastructure and FTTP Products Line Amplifiers Used to distribute RF signals from headends to subscribers. 75 Ohm Gain Block Amplifiers Used to amplify RF signals at intermediate points in the CATV network and at individual subscriber locations. Optical Network RF Amplifiers Used to amplify RF signals for FTTP and FiOS. For Wireless Infrastructure Power Amplifiers Used in RF transmit chain of small-cell base stations (i.e. picocells, femtocells). WiMAX and WiFi Products Mobile WiMAX PAs Used in RF transmit chain of handsets, smartphones, datacards, or embedded modules to amplify uplink signal to base station. Fixed Point WiMAX PAs Used in RF transmit chain of Consumer Premises Equipment (CPEs) and femtocells. Wi-Fi PAs and Front End ICs (FEIC) Used in RF transmit and receive chains in embedded notebooks, access points and wireless mobile devices. Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Customer Support We sell our products primarily to our direct customers worldwide and have developed close working relationships with leading companies in the broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. Additionally, we selectively use independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors to complement our direct sales and customer support efforts. Our relationships with our distributors enable them to maintain local practices regarding inventories and payment terms while supporting our growth in Asian wireless and global broadband markets. Working with distributors like World Peace Group and Richardson Electronics, who have extensive sales networks, provides us access to tier-one customers in these markets. We believe this is critical to our objective of expanding our customer base, especially as we expand our product portfolio. We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets demands an unwavering commitment to building and maintaining close relationships with our customers. Our sales and marketing staff, which are assisted by our technical staff and senior management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. Our design and applications engineering staff actively communicate with customers during all phases of design and production. We have highly specialized field application engineering teams near our customers in Korea, Taiwan and China, as well as a system application team in Denmark, which is located near key European handset original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s) and chipset providers. We believe that these contacts are vital to the development of close, long-term working relationships with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical and market trends. We believe that reference-design manufacturers in the broadband wireless and wireline communications markets will continue to play an important role in the future of these markets. Therefore, we believe it is essential that we maintain strong relationships in partnering with these companies to further penetrate these market opportunities. Process Technology, Manufacturing, Assembly and Testing We design, develop and manufacture RFICs primarily using GaAs compound semiconductor substrates with various process technologies, Metal Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MESFET), Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistors (pHEMT), and Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors (HBT). Our patented technology, which utilizes InGaP-plus, combines InGaP HBT and pHEMT processes on a single substrate, enabling us to integrate the PA function and the RF active switch function on the same die. Manufacturing We fabricate substantially all of our ICs in our six-inch diameter GaAs wafer fab in Warren, New Jersey. The Warren fab was first certified as ISO 9001 compliant in December 1993. Since that time, we have updated our compliance to the ISO 9001:2000 upgrade of this standard. In 2004, we also received ISO 14001 certification and remain certified. During 2009, we announced a hybrid manufacturing strategy whereby we entered into a strategic foundry agreement with WIN Semiconductors to supplement our existing wafer fabrication capability and allow for additional and flexible capacity without the requisite capital investment. We have begun developing certain new products that will use this additional production and process capability. Assembly Fabricated GaAs wafers are shipped to contractors in Asia for packaging. Certain processes cannot be easily or economically integrated onto a single die, and consequently multi-chip modules that combine multiple die within a single package are now required, enabling the selection of the optimal process technology for each IC within the package. This provides enhanced integration at the sub-system level and these solutions generate significant size reductions in wireless handset component circuitry. Modules allow our customers to get their product to market more rapidly at a lower overall end product cost due largely to the reduced parts count and reduction in required engineering effort. We believe we are well positioned to address the shift toward more complex multi-chip modules because we possess both extensive process breadth (a key advantage, as modules typically incorporate numerous process technologies) and a large portfolio of RF expertise (e.g., PAs, switches, transceivers, filters, and discretes). Final Test After assembly, packaged ICs are tested prior to shipment to our customers. We outsource the majority of our production RF testing operations, which are performed near our module assembly contractors in Asia. This adds considerable efficiencies to the device manufacturing process in reducing product cycle times and supports our initiative to reduce manufacturing costs. Raw Materials GaAs wafers, HBT/pHEMT epitaxial wafers, passive components, other raw materials, and equipment used in the production of our ICs are available from a limited number of sources. See “Risk Factors—Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments.” Research and Development We have made significant investments in our proprietary processes, including product design, packaging and wafer fabrication, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage. Research and development expenses were $50.1 million, $46.0 million and $54.5 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We continue to focus our research and development on advanced PAs and front end modules for 3G and 4G wireless markets, and on active splitters, WiFi PAs and Front-End ICs, WiMAX PAs, CATV infrastructure amplifiers and FTTP amplifiers in the broadband market. Further, we develop other components, for example silicon CMOS components, to support our PA module and other products. We do not intend to manufacture this technology in-house, as we believe there will be adequate external foundry capacity available. See “Risk Factors—Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments.” Customers Sales to RIM, Samsung and ZTE Corporation accounted for 26%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of total net sales during 2010. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during 2010. See “Risk Factors—We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of a customer or a decrease in purchases and/or changes in purchasing or payment patterns by one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenue.” Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 590 employees. Competition We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor and integrated circuit manufacturers of all sizes. Our key competitors are Avago Technologies Limited, Zoran Corporation, RF Micro Devices, Inc., SiGe Semiconductor, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Increased competition could adversely affect our revenue and profitability through price reductions or reduced demand for our products. See “Risk Factors—We face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products’ prices and sales.” Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights It is our practice to seek U.S. patent and copyright protection on our products and developments where appropriate and to protect our valuable technology under U.S. laws affording protection for trade secrets and for semiconductor chip designs. We own 73 U.S. patents and have 4 pending U.S. patent applications. The U.S. patents were issued between 1992 and 2010 and will expire between 2011 and 2029. We rely primarily upon trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. To protect our trade secrets, technical know-how and other proprietary information, our employees are required to enter into agreements providing for maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. We have also entered into non-disclosure agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties in conjunction with possible corporate collaborations and for other purposes. See “Risk Factors—We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others.” Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. These laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediating, and for certain damages resulting from, sites of past releases of hazardous materials. We believe that we currently conduct, and have conducted, our activities and operations in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and that costs arising from existing environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you, however, that such environmental laws and regulations will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur significant costs in the future in order to comply with these laws and regulations. See “Risk Factors—We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations both domestically and abroad.” Available Information Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.anadigics.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov ************************************************************************ ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to ANADIGICS We have experienced losses in the past, and may experience losses in the future. We have incurred substantial operating and net losses in the past. While we had positive operating results during calendar year 2007 and portions of 2010, we had a net loss in calendar years 2008 and 2009 as a result of the general economic downturn, market factors beyond our control and a loss in market share. Due to softness in China and through our distribution channels relating to excess inventories, coupled with a continued market correction expected to further impact certain of our Broadband market revenue, we anticipate reporting a loss in the first quarter of 2011. Any of these or other factors, could lead us to incur losses in the future. Additionally, we compete in an industry with limited visibility into customers’ forecasts beyond a quarter or two. If economic conditions worsen or there is an abrupt change in our customers’ businesses or markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations can vary significantly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and our end markets. The semiconductor industry and our end markets have been cyclical, seasonal and subject to significant downturns. In past years, the industry has experienced periods marked by market weaknesses that created lower order demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated declines in average selling prices for our products. These factors negatively affected our financial condition and results of operations during these periods and may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our results of operations also may be subject to significant quarterly and annual fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: (i) changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; (ii) the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; (iii) industry production capacity levels and fluctuations in industry manufacturing yields; (iv) levels of inventory in our end markets; (v) availability and cost of products from our suppliers; (vi) the gain or loss of significant customers; (vii) our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; (viii) new product and technology introductions by competitors; (ix) changes in the mix of products produced and sold; (x) market acceptance of our products and our customers; and (xi) intellectual property disputes. As a result, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. Investors should not rely on our results of operations for any previous period as an indicator of what results may be for any future period. Failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of analysts or investors could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of a customer or a decrease in purchases and/or changes in purchasing or payment patterns by one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenues. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a few significant customers and their subcontractors. Sales to RIM, Samsung and ZTE accounted for 26%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of total net sales during 2010. Sales to our greater than 10% customers approximated or exceeded 30% of total net sales in each of the last three fiscal years. Our financial condition and results of operations have been materially and adversely affected in the past by the failure of anticipated orders to be realized and by deferrals or cancellations of orders as a result of changes in customer requirements. If we were to lose any of our major customers, or if sales to these customers were to decrease materially, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer’s ability to make timely payments to us for non-returnable products could be impaired. If we fail to sell a high volume of products, our operating results may be harmed. In calendar years 2007 and 2008 we increased capacity in our manufacturing facility in order to attempt to meet customer demands. During 2009 and portions of 2010, we underutilized the facility, resulting in excess capacity. This excess capacity meant we incurred higher fixed costs for our products relative to the revenues we generate. Because large portions of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, our manufacturing volumes are critical to our operating results. If we fail to achieve and maintain acceptable manufacturing volumes or experience product shipment delays, our results of operations could be harmed. During periods of decreased demand, our high fixed manufacturing costs negatively affect our results of operations. We base our expense levels in part on our expectations of future orders and these expense levels are predominantly fixed. If we receive fewer customer orders than expected or if our customers delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to reduce our manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to improve utilization levels and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels relative to revenue will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products’ prices and sales. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor and integrated circuit (IC) manufacturers of all sizes, some of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share. We believe that the principal competitive factors for suppliers in our markets include, among others: (i) time-to-market; (ii) timely new product innovation; (iii) product quality, reliability and performance; (iv) product price; (v) features available in products; (vi) compliance with industry standards; (vii) strategic relationships with leading reference design providers and customers; and (viii) access to and protection of intellectual property. Certain of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, distributors, reference design providers or other third parties with whom we have or may in the future have relationships. If our competitors are able to strengthen existing, or establish new, relationships with these third parties they may rapidly acquire market share at our expense, which occurred to some extent in 2008 when we were unable to fully meet customer demand due to capacity constraints. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We need to keep pace with rapid product and process development and technological changes as well as product cost reductions to be competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid changes in both product and process technologies based on the continuous demand for product enhancements, higher levels of integration, decreased size and reduced power consumption. Because the continuous evolution of these technologies and frequent introduction of new products and enhancements have generally resulted in short product life cycles for our products, we believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve the efficiency of our products and process technologies and rapidly develop new products and process technologies. The successful development of our products is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, and our ability to protect, develop or otherwise obtain adequate intellectual property for our new products. If a competing technology emerges that is, or is perceived to be, superior to our existing technology and we are unable to develop and/or implement the new technology successfully or to develop and implement a competitive and economically acceptable alternative technology, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This implementation may require us to modify the manufacturing process for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and redesign some existing products, which may prove difficult for us and result in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We will need to make substantial investments to develop these enhancements and technologies, and we cannot assure investors that we will have funds available for these investments or that these enhancements and technologies will be successful. If Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs) of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover, a “design win” from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, including for example, if its own products are not commercially successful. We may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have certain rights to return unsold products. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs or ODMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, shortened customer order lead times and opportunistic orders may not be filled timely due to a lack of, or inadequate level of uncommitted inventory resulting in lower revenues than possible. In addition, shortened customer order lead times may make it difficult to forecast revenues. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes and the processes of our vendors. The fabrication of integrated circuits, particularly those made of GaAs, is a highly complex and precise process. Our integrated circuits are primarily manufactured on wafers made of GaAs requiring multiple process steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, downtime on equipment, human error, interruptions in electrical supply or a number of other factors can cause a substantial interruption in our manufacturing processes. Moreover, our manufacturing process is subject to fluctuations in our demand and fab utilization. In an environment of increasing manufacturing output and personnel to satisfy increasing demand, we may incur manufacturing disruptions limiting supply to customers. Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at our production facility or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may include electrical power outages, fire, earthquakes, flooding, international conflicts, war, acts of terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause significant delays in our shipments unless and until we are able to shift the manufacturing of such products from an affected facility to another facility or the disruption is remedied. Furthermore, many of our customers require that they qualify a new manufacturing source before they will accept products from such source. This qualification process may be expensive and time consuming. In the event of such delays, we cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity would be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative manufacturing capacity or assembly and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external manufacturing. Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption at the Warren, New Jersey semiconductor wafer fab, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity for certain processes would not be readily available from third-party sources. Any disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also depend on certain vendors for components, equipment and services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, and thereby, our results of operations. Our dependence on foreign semiconductor component suppliers, assembly and test operations contractors could lead to delays in or reductions of product shipments. We do not assemble or test all of our integrated circuits or multi-chip modules. Instead, we provide the integrated circuit die and, in some cases, packaging and other components to assembly and test vendors located primarily in Asia. Our products contain numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products, obtained from external suppliers. The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, quality, fabrication costs, warranty issues and protection of intellectual property. Further, we are dependent upon a few foreign semiconductor assembly and test subcontractors. If these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products and, therefore, our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain sufficient high quality and timely component parts, assembly or test service, if we experience delays in transferring or requalifying our production between suppliers, assembly or test locations or if means of transportation to or from these locations are interrupted, we would experience increased costs, delays or reductions in product shipment, and/or reduced product yields, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The short life cycles and nature of semiconductor production, including the potential for order cancellation and need to build product to forecast for some of our products may leave us with obsolete or excess inventories. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. For example, we estimate that current life cycles for wireless handsets, and in turn our wireless products, are approximately 9 to 12 months. Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely. We cannot be certain that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed, will not result in significant charges that will negatively affect our operating profit and net income. Our products may experience significant declines in unit prices. In each of the markets where we compete, prices of established products tend to decline significantly over time and in some cases rapidly. Accordingly, in order to remain competitive, we believe that we must continue to develop product enhancements and new technologies that will either slow the price declines of our products or reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. If we fail to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. We do not manufacture any of the starting wafers, packaging or passive components used in the production of our gallium arsenide integrated circuits. Epitaxial wafers, packaging and passive components are available from a limited number of sources. To the extent that we are unable to obtain these materials, packaging or passive components in the required quantities, as has occurred from time to time in the past, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of vendors to supply the equipment used in our manufacturing processes. When demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is high, lead times for delivery of such equipment can be substantial. We cannot assure you that we would not lose potential sales if required manufacturing equipment is unavailable and, as a result, we are unable to maintain or increase our production levels. A delay for any reason in increasing capacity would limit our ability to increase sales volumes, which could harm our relationships with customers. We may pursue selective investments, acquisitions and alliances; the management and integration of additional operations could be expensive and divert management time and acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. Our ability to complete acquisitions or alliances is dependent upon, and may be limited to, the availability of suitable candidates and capital. In addition, acquisitions and alliances involve risks that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including the management time that may be diverted from operations in order to pursue and complete such transactions and difficulties in integrating and managing the additional operations and personnel of acquired companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the capital necessary to consummate acquisitions or alliances on satisfactory terms, if at all. Further, any businesses that we acquire will likely have their own capital needs, which may be significant, which we could be called upon to satisfy independent of the acquisition price. Future acquisitions or alliances could result in the incurrence of debt, costs and contingent liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any debt could subject us to substantial and burdensome covenants. The growth that may result from future acquisitions or alliances may place significant strains on our resources, systems and management. If we are unable to effectively manage such growth by implementing systems, expanding our infrastructure and hiring, training and managing employees, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we issue additional shares of our common stock in order to acquire another business, our stockholders’ interest in us, or the combined company, could be materially diluted. Further, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur significant additional costs. The fabrication of integrated circuits from substrate materials and the modules containing these components is a highly complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to rework or replace the products. Our products may contain undetected defects or failures that only become evident after we commence volume shipments, which we may experience from time to time. Other defects or failures may also occur in the future. If such failures or defects occur, we could: (i) lose revenues; (ii) incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; (iii) experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; and (iv) experience increased product returns or discounts. We have implemented restructuring programs in the past and may need to in the future. We implemented cost restructuring programs in late 2008 and early 2009, and have implemented other restructuring programs in our history. Such restructuring programs are costly to implement and may inadequately address the operating environment. No assurance can be given that the implementation of cost reduction programs will generate the anticipated cost savings and other benefits or that future or additional measures may be required. We could incorrectly anticipate the extent and term of the market decline and weakness for our products and services and we may be forced to restructure further or may incur future operating charges due to poor business conditions. The variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins. Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular integrated circuit’s design and our experience in manufacturing that type of integrated circuit. We have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which have adversely affected our gross margins. Regardless of the process technology used, the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties can include: (i) defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers; (ii) impurities in the materials used; (iii) operator errors; (iv) contamination of the manufacturing environment; (v) equipment failure; and (vi) interruptions in electrical supply. Many of our manufacturing costs are fixed and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time. Therefore, it is critical for us to increase the number of shippable integrated circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain or improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and have done so in the past. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. If any new yield problems were to arise or any existing yield problems were to continue, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Unfavorable general economic conditions in individual or world markets could negatively impact our financial performance. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets, could negatively affect the demand for some of our products. Our customer base includes OEMs and ODMs that are reliant on consumer demand. Consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending, which can soften demand for our customers’ products and can negatively affect our financial performance. Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally PAs and switches, which tend to be more expensive than their silicon counterparts. The cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. We expect the cost of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue for the foreseeable future to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. In addition, silicon semiconductor technologies are widely-used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts. If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify their higher cost, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that there will continue to be products and markets that require the performance attributes of gallium arsenide solutions. We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. In the future, we may need to access sources of financing to fund our growth. Taking into consideration our cash balance as of December 31, 2010, including marketable securities, of $106.1 million, we believe that our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, interest and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that the capital required to fund these expenditures will be available in the future. Conditions existing in the U.S. capital markets, as well as the then current condition of our company, will affect our ability to raise capital, as well as the terms of any financing. We may not be able to raise enough capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all. Failure to obtain capital when required could have a material adverse affect on us. In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future. The liquidity and valuation of our investments in marketable securities could be affected by disruption in financial markets. We maintain investments in financial instruments including corporate debt obligations, auction rate securities, and government-related obligations, which included $6.0 million carrying value of auction rate securities at December 31, 2010. These investments must be supported by actively trading financial markets in order to be liquid investments. Financial markets can temporarily or permanently have an imbalance of buyers and sellers that can impact valuations and liquidity. Auction rate markets have experienced imbalances since late 2007 and may continue to be imbalanced. Such imbalances could negatively impact the fair value of our investments, requiring a charge against income as occurred in 2008 and 2009, our access to cash and the liquidity of our marketable securities. We cannot assure you that our marketable securities could be sold for their carrying value or in our required time frame to support our intermediate term cashflow and liquidity needs. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. A small number of key executive officers manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified manufacturing personnel, technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry as the emerging broadband wireless and wireline communications markets develop, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining highly qualified manufacturing personnel, technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material effect on our ability to operate our business. We do not presently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executive officers. We are subject to risks due to our international customer base and our subcontracting operations. Sales to customers located outside the United States (based on shipping addresses and not on the locations of ultimate end users) accounted for approximately 95% of our net sales for each of the last three years. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. In addition, independent third parties located in Asia supply a substantial portion of the package substrates and components that we use in the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits, and assemble and test nearly all of our products. Due to our reliance on international sales and on foreign suppliers, assemblers and test houses, we are subject to risks of conducting business outside of the United States, including primarily those arising from local economic and political conditions, fluctuations in exchange rates, international health epidemics, natural disasters, restrictive governmental actions (e.g., exchange controls, duties, etc.), limitation of protecting intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions and potential acts of terrorism. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations both domestically and abroad. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Although we are aware of contamination resulting from historical third-party operations at one of our facilities, a prior owner of such facility has been performing, and paying for the costs associated with, remediation of this property pursuant to an agreement with the state environmental regulatory authority. However, we cannot assure you that such prior owner will continue to do so or that we will not incur any material costs or liabilities associated with compliance with environmental laws in the future. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and copyrights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may violate our patents or copyrights. In addition to intellectual property that we have patented and copyrighted, we also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our collaborators and employees. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others. We seek to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have been notified, and may be notified in the future, that we may be infringing on certain patents and/or other intellectual property rights of other parties. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to litigation to defend our products or processes against claims of patent infringement or other intellectual property claims. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially reasonable terms and we may be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and cease production of our work product or use of one or more manufacturing processes. Even if we are ultimately successful, patent litigation can be time consuming, disruptive to management and expensive. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have had significant volatility in our stock price and it may fluctuate in the future. Therefore, you may be unable to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for such shares. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: (i) our operating results and prospects; (ii) the operating results and prospects of our major customers; (iii) announcements by our competitors; (iv) the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; (v) investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; (vi) changes in our earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts covering our stock; (vii) general financial and other market conditions; and (viii) domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility significantly affected and may in the future affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and our stockholders’ rights agreement and of Delaware law could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us and that could deprive you of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. In addition, we have a stockholders’ rights agreement that under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of us without prior approval of our board of directors. Together, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, certain provisions of Delaware law and our stockholders’ rights agreement may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock and could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We and certain of our officers and directors are defendants in litigation and the outcome of these lawsuits may, to the extent not covered by insurance, negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Since late 2008, the Company and certain of its former and current officers and/or directors have been parties to a now consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. This lawsuit alleges federal securities fraud claims and seeks unspecified damages arising out of the alleged non-disclosure of information concerning, among other things, manufacturing inefficiencies and customer demand. Following plaintiffs’ submission of the Second Amended Complaint, filed on October 4, 2010, the alleged class period runs from February 12, 2008 through August 7, 2008. In early 2009, two shareholders’ derivative lawsuits were filed in New Jersey Superior Court against the Company, as a nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former directors, alleging state law claims and seeking unspecified damages arising out of the same events at issue in the putative class action lawsuits. Neither the putative class action lawsuits nor the shareholders’ derivative lawsuits have yet advanced beyond the preliminary procedural stages. (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional details on these cases and related matters.) At this time, we cannot predict the probable outcome of these lawsuits. The pendency of these lawsuits, and any others that might subsequently be filed against us, could divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any adverse outcome in any one of these lawsuits may, to the extent not reimbursed by insurance, have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 