Item 1A: Risk Factors Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2: Properties Item 3: Legal Proceedings Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6: Selected Financial Data Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A: Controls and Procedures Item 9B: Other Information PART III Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11: Executive Compensation Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14: Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview ANADIGICS, Inc. (“we” or the “Company”) is a leading provider of semiconductor solutions in the growing broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. Our products include power amplifiers (PAs), tuner integrated circuits, active splitters, line amplifiers and other components, which can be sold individually or packaged as integrated radio frequency (RF) and front end modules. We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize on the high growth voice, data and video segments of the broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. We offer third generation (3G) products that use the Wideband Code-Division Multiple Access (W-CDMA) and Enhanced Data Rates for Global System for Mobile Communication Evolution (EDGE) standards and combinations of W-CDMA and EDGE platforms (WEDGE), beyond third generation (3.5G) products that use the High Speed Packet Access (HSPA, inclusive of downlink and uplink) and Evolution Data Optimized (EVDO) standards, fourth generation (4G) products for Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) and Long Term Evolution (LTE), Wireless Fidelity (WiFi) products that use the 802.11 a/b/g and 802.11 n (Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO)) standards, cable television (CATV) cable modem and set-top box products, CATV infrastructure products and Fiber-To-The-Premises (FTTP) products. Our business strategy focuses on developing RF front end solutions for our customers and partnering with industry-leading wireless and wireline chipset providers to incorporate our solutions into their reference designs. Our integrated solutions enable our customers to improve RF performance, power efficiency, reliability, time-to-market and the integration of chip components into single packages, while reducing the size, weight and cost of their products. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1984. Our corporate headquarters are located at 141 Mt. Bethel Road, Warren, New Jersey 07059, and our telephone number at that address is 908-668-5000. We believe our business will benefit in the long-term from two key factors: (1) fast growth in the markets for 3G, 3.5G, 4G, WiFi and CATV products and (2) an increased dollar content of our solutions within the products in these end markets. We believe that the combination of these factors will enable us to outpace the overall end product unit growth in these broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. For example, additional PAs with higher performance levels and integration are required in 3G and 3.5G wireless handsets as compared to prior standards. The complexity of 3G, 3.5G and 4G designs coupled with our selection in several leading reference designs allows us to capitalize on the growth in the 3G, 3.5G and 4G markets. In the WiFi market, our business will benefit from both increasing shipments of WiFi-enabled handheld devices as well as the growing adoption of dual-band 802.11 a/b/g solutions and the 802.11 n MIMO standard, which commonly use multiple PAs with each chipset. We are positioning our CATV set-top box business to capitalize on the growth of home gateway products, which provide multi-function capabilities such as digital video recording (DVR), high definition television (HDTV) reception, multi-room access and Internet connectivity, by expanding our offering of active splitter products. In addition, we believe that the new generation of cable modems based on the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification 3.0 (DOCSIS-3.0) standard will increase the addressable market for our upstream amplifiers. We anticipate that our new hybrid line amplifier products will expand our addressable share of the CATV infrastructure market and we further believe that our infrastructure business will continue to benefit from the adoption of 1 GHz CATV systems worldwide and from RF amplifiers being used in FTTP optical networks such as Verizon Communication Inc.’s (Verizon) FiOS. We continue to focus on leveraging our technological advantages to remain a leading supplier of innovative semiconductor solutions for broadband wireless and wireline communications. We believe our patented InGaP-plus technology, which combines the bipolar technology of a PA (HBT PA) with the surface device technology of an RF active switch (pHEMT) on the same die, provides us with a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Additionally, we believe technologies such as High Efficiency at Low Power (HELP-TM, HELP2-TM and HELP3-TM, collectively HELP) power amplifiers provide our customers a competitive advantage by enabling their 3G, 3.5G and 4G devices to consume less battery power and deliver longer talk time than comparable products in their markets. Our six-inch diameter Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) wafer fabrication facility (fab) located at our corporate headquarters in Warren, New Jersey, has been operational since 1999. During 2009, we announced a hybrid manufacturing strategy whereby we entered into a strategic foundry agreement with WIN Semiconductors to supplement our existing wafer fabrication capability and allows for additional and flexible capacity without the requisite capital investment. Industry Background Wireless 3 and 3.5 G Market The number of wireless handsets designed for 3G and 4G standards like CDMA/EVDO, WCDMA/HSPA and LTE is expected to grow faster than the overall market as these standards become dominant over the next several years. According to Allied Business Intelligence (ABI), annual shipments of 3G and 4G handsets forecast to grow from 503 million units in 2009 to 883 million units by 2013, a 75% increase in four years. Shipments of 3G and 4G wireless modems and other mobile broadband data devices are forecast to grow even more rapidly, from 60 million units in 2009 to 239 million units in 2013, a four-fold increase in four years. As a qualified PA supplier to top-tier handset manufacturers such as Research in Motion (“RIM”), LG Electronics (“LGE”) and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd we believe we are well positioned to benefit from the continuing transition to 3G and 4G technologies. Traditionally, the chipset in a wireless handset required one or two power amplifiers. As wireless operators gained additional frequency licenses to deploy 3G and 4G networks, requirements for mobile devices that can operate in multiple bands has increased demand for power amplifiers in handsets, datacards and wireless modems. These wireless devices also require PAs with higher power and better linearity to meet more demanding performance specifications. The key drivers of growth in the wireless handset market are: · Deployment of 3G and 4G networks and services. · New subscriber additions in emerging markets. · New features and applications to drive replacements in established markets. · Convergence of voice, data and video services. Wireless handsets and mobile data devices utilize a semiconductor chipset to enable communication with the network. Key components of a wireless semiconductor chipset include a baseband, transceiver and one or more power amplifiers (PAs). Each PA boosts the transmitter RF output to deliver enough signal power to enable connection with the radio access network for voice and data throughput. As additional features and functionality are incorporated into wireless handsets to leverage the higher network data rates to enable applications such as high speed data and streaming video services, increasing demands are placed on the handset battery, thereby reducing battery life. The high-performance PA is a critical component in the handset because it directly affects battery life and, consequently, available talk time. We believe our differentiated InGaP-plus process and design technologies such as HELP™ provide a competitive advantage by enabling us to provide PAs that consume less battery power and extend talk time. In addition to wireless handsets and data cards, 3G and 3.5G capabilities are increasingly being embedded in notebook computers. We are a leading participant in this market through the use of our power amplifiers in Qualcomm reference designs, and in embedded wireless modules manufactured by leading providers to this growing market. Wireless 4G As a fourth-generation wireless standard, WiMAX continues to gain momentum worldwide, as commercial mobile broadband wireless services that use this technology continue to be introduced and gain subscribers. Clearwire Corporation is well on its way to providing nationwide service in the United States; UQ Communications Inc. plans to support service over all of Japan within three years; and successful service launches in Korea, Russia, Malaysia and Taiwan all indicate the growth potential of this technology. We currently ship WiMAX PAs to several customers, and believe that our relationships with leading WiMAX equipment and chipset vendors have positioned us to be one of the market-leading providers of WiMAX PAs in the world. Long Term Evolution (LTE) is the 4G standard developed by the 3GPP consortium and supported by the Global mobile Suppliers Association (GSA), one of the largest wireless industry groups. A survey by the GSA in February 2010 identified 59 LTE network commitments in 28 countries, with 20 networks planning to begin commercial LTE service in 2010. The GSA expects additional operators to announce their LTE plans during 2010. According to the GSA, LTE is needed to accommodate the dramatic traffic growth anticipated for data, and to fully address the mass market. LTE will significantly boost network throughputs, reduce latency, improve spectrum and deliver operational efficiencies and performance; the next step in the user experience. ANADIGICS long-standing business relationships with key players in the LTE ecosystem makes us well-positioned to benefit from the developing demand for LTE-capable power amplifiers as more LTE networks are deployed. Wireless Fidelity (WiFi) The market for electronic devices with WiFi, or wireless LAN, networking capabilities continues to grow. ABI Research forecasts that shipments of WiFi-enabled devices will grow from 600 million units in 2009 to over 1.5 billion units in 2013, representing a 26% compounded annual growth rate over that period of time. WiFi functionality in notebook and netbook computers has become standard, and WiFi is now being embedded in other consumer electronic devices such as cameras, printers, audio devices, mobile phones, mobile internet devices and gaming consoles. Our WiFi power amplifier, front end module (FEM) and front end integrated circuit (FEIC) business stands to benefit from the following two market trends, in particular: (i) With the advent of the 802.11n standard in 2007, WiFi products for mobile computing have expanded into MIMO architectures, which require multiple PAs per product. ABI estimates that in 2009 about 46% of all WiFi integrated circuits shipped conformed to the 802.11n standard, and forecasts that market share to reach 85% by 2013. This trend suggests that the growth rate of PA demand may significantly outpace that of WiFi products in general. We believe that in addition to an increase in demand for PAs, there will also be an increase in demand for FEMs or FEICs that include multiple PAs. (ii) Annual shipments of WiFi-enabled cellular handsets and mobile internet devices are expected to grow from 142 million units in 2009 to 559 million units in 2013, according to ABI. We believe that a growing share of these devices will require dual-band operation, representing a significant opportunity for our new dual-band FEMs and FEICs. These products offer high levels of functional integration in small form factors which are necessary for handheld applications. We continue to secure new RF front end sockets in next-generation reference designs from leading WiFi chipset providers for a wide range of applications. Taking into account the multiple-PA MIMO technology supported by the 802.11n standard and the demand for small, integrated products for handheld applications, we believe that our portfolio of differentiated products in these high-growth market areas will allow us to benefit from the prevailing WiFi market trends. Cable Set-Top Box and Cable Modem Markets The markets for CATV set-top boxes and cable modems are being shaped by several key trends. Set-top boxes are incorporating advanced functionality, to leverage the convergence of voice, data and video services over the broadband network, such as DVR, HDTV, wireless internet access, interactive services, home networking and gaming. These new features are driving demand for both new and replacement set-top boxes, including high-end multi-function boxes called gateways. As a long-term supplier to Cisco Systems Inc. (Cisco) and Motorola, Inc., we believe that we are well positioned to benefit from these trends and we are offering new products with features tailored for gateway boxes. We also believe that the rollouts of DTV in China and parts of Europe, and Verizon’s FiOS in the U.S., are contributing to sustained demand for digital set-top boxes. As the cable modem market transitions to the new DOCSIS 3.0 standard, we believe it will provide additional opportunity for our upstream amplifier products. The DOCSIS 3.0 standard uses multiple channels simultaneously to provide wider bandwidth and higher data throughput than previous technologies, and we believe that we are well positioned to support this market opportunity. CATV Infrastructure and FTTP We are a leading supplier of 12V and 24V line amplifier radio frequency integrated circuit (RFIC) amplifiers and drop amplifiers to the CATV infrastructure market. This market shows continuing demand for equipment upgrades as a result of increasing CATV infrastructure bandwidth requirements, the need of cable service providers to offer converged voice, data and video services over their broadband networks, and the increased deployment of CATV fiber nodes. We are participating in these upgrades through our collaboration with industry leaders, and as a result of the rollout of digital cable in China and parts of Europe. We are also offering new line amplifier products in industry-standard packages that we believe will expand our addressable market. Historically, we have enjoyed long product life cycles in these markets. Additionally, we are providing optical network RF amplifiers in the FTTP market for use in systems such as Verizon’s FiOS, for which deployments continue throughout the U.S. Our Strategy Our objective is creating value through innovative RF and Mixed Signal solutions that enable instantaneous connectivity anytime, anywhere. The key elements of our strategy include: · Focus on the high-growth end markets of broadband wireless and wireline. We target the fastest-growing and most sophisticated segments of the wireless and wireline communications markets. These segments offer the largest growth opportunity and the greatest opportunity for semiconductor manufacturers to extract value. · Create innovative RF patented technology resulting in industry-leading products. Our longstanding reputation of innovation in process technology and design has resulted in best-in-class RF products. We consistently provide performance advantages that help our customers deliver differentiated products to market. · Work closely with industry-leading customers and partners. We strive to develop close working relationships with industry leaders in the wireless and broadband markets. These relationships give us insight into the most important specifications for next-generation products. · Build market share to improve economies of scale. Establishing our business as a leading technology enabler for the long-term involves responsible investment for future technologies supported by appropriate long-term return. Increased volumes are critical to semiconductor companies and consistent with long-term viability for our business. · Provide additional and flexible capacity through foundries. Leveraging third-party foundry capabilities to supplement our existing wafer fab, and expand our ability to grow scale while limiting costly further capital investment in manufacturing. · Focus on improving our financial model. We seek to increase our gross margins and profitability by focusing on those products and markets where we can achieve a strong market position by deploying our technological leadership. We intend to focus on supplying products in the following markets for this purpose: (1) 3G standards CDMA/EVDO, W-CDMA/HSPA and UMTS, (2) 4G standards LTE and WiMAX, (3) WiFi standards 802.11 a/b/g and 802.11 n, (4) CATV set-top boxes and cable modems, and (5) CATV and FTTP infrastructure amplifiers. Products We classify our revenues based upon the end application of the product in which our integrated circuits are used. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, wireless accounted for approximately 56%, 60% and 68% respectively, of our total net sales, while broadband accounted for approximately 44%, 40% and 32%, respectively, of our total net sales. Wireless Our Wireless product line includes power amplifier modules for CDMA/EVDO, GSM/EDGE, WCDMA/HSPA, LTE and other wireless technologies for mobile handsets and data devices. The following table describes our principal products for these applications: Product Application Power Amplifier (PA) Used in RF transmit chain of wireless handset, modem, datacard or embedded module to amplify uplink signal to base station. HELP™ PA Module (multiple versions) ANADIGICS proprietary High Efficiency at Low Power PA design reduces average PA power consumption as much as 75% in CDMA/EVDO and W-CDMA/HSPA devices. ZeroIC™ PA Module Unique InGaP PA design for specific Qualcomm CDMA/EVDO platforms includes switched RF path with zero current consumption to conserve battery life at lower power levels. Multi-band PA Modules Two or more PA’s in a single package enables device operation in multiple frequency bands at lower cost and with less board area compared to multiple single-band PA designs. Broadband Our Broadband product line encompasses video and data telecommunications systems, primarily consisting of CATV, WiFi and WiMAX applications. The following table outlines our principal CATV products and their applications: Product Application CATV Set-Top Box and Cable Modem Products Tuner Upconverters and Downconverters Used to perform signal amplification and frequency conversion in double-conversion video and data tuners. Active Splitters Used to split an incoming signal to feed multiple tuners. Integrated Tuners Used to integrate tuner upconverters, downconverters and synthesizers in a single package. Upstream Amplifiers Used to amplify and control the level of signals in the return path. Product Application CATV Infrastructure and FTTP Products Line Amplifiers Used to distribute RF signals from headends to subscribers. Drop Amplifiers Used to amplify RF signals at individual subscriber locations. Optical Network RF Amplifiers Used to amplify RF signals for FTTP and FiOS. The following table sets forth information regarding our principal products in the WiFi market: Product Application WiFi Products 2.4 GHz (802.11 b/g) PAs and Front-End ICs Used in wireless network interface cards (NIC), embedded notebook computers (mini-PCI) and access point (AP) applications to boost the transmit signal for increased range and data throughput. 5 GHz (802.11 a) PAs and Front-End ICs Used in wireless rich-media applications, such as streaming audio/video, to boost the transmit signal for increased range and data throughput. Dual Band (802.11 a/b/g) PAs and Front-End ICs Used in wireless network systems that require seamless transition between frequencies to mitigate interference and congestion. MIMO (802.11n) PAs and Front-End ICs Used in multimedia applications for higher data throughput and greater WiFi coverage. The following table sets forth information regarding our principal products in the WiMAX market: Product Application WiMAX Products Mobile WiMAX PAs PA modules used for mobility applications. Fixed Point WiMAX PAs PA modules used for point-to-point Central Premises Equipment (CPE) applications. Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Customer Support We sell our products primarily to our direct customers worldwide and have developed close working relationships with leading companies in the broadband wireless and wireline communications markets. Additionally, we selectively use independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors to complement our direct sales and customer support efforts. Our relationships with our distributors enable them to maintain local practices regarding inventories and payment terms while supporting our growth in Asian wireless and global broadband markets. Working with distributors like World Peace Group and Richardson Electronics, who have extensive sales networks, provides us access to tier-one customers in these markets. We believe this is critical to our objective of expanding our customer base, especially as we expand our product portfolio. We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets demands an unwavering commitment to building and maintaining close relationships with our customers. Our sales and marketing staff, which is assisted by our technical staff and senior management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. Our design and applications engineering staff actively communicate with customers during all phases of design and production. We have highly specialized field application engineering teams near our customers in Korea, Taiwan and China, as well as a system application team in Denmark, which is located near key European handset original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s) and chipset providers. We believe that these contacts are vital to the development of close, long-term working relationships with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical and market trends. We believe that reference-design manufacturers in the broadband wireless and wireline communications markets will continue to play an important role in the future of these markets. Therefore, we believe it is essential that we maintain strong relationships in partnering with these companies to further penetrate these market opportunities. Process Technology, Manufacturing, Assembly and Testing We design, develop and manufacture RFICs primarily using GaAs compound semiconductor substrates with various process technologies, Metal Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MESFET), Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistors (pHEMT), and Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors (HBT). Our patented technology, which utilizes InGaP-plus, combines InGaP HBT and pHEMT processes on a single substrate, enabling us to integrate the PA function and the RF active switch function on the same die. Manufacturing We fabricate substantially all of our ICs in our six-inch diameter GaAs wafer fab in Warren, New Jersey. The Warren fab was first certified as ISO 9001 compliant in December 1993. Since that time, we have updated our compliance to the ISO 9001:2000 upgrade of this standard. In 2004, we also received ISO 14001 certification and remain certified. During 2009, we announced a hybrid manufacturing strategy whereby we entered into a strategic foundry agreement with WIN Semiconductors to supplement our existing wafer fabrication capability and allow for additional and flexible capacity without the requisite capital investment. We have begun developing certain new products that will use this additional production and process capability. Assembly Fabricated GaAs wafers are shipped to contractors in Asia for packaging. Certain processes cannot be easily or economically integrated onto a single die, and consequently multi-chip modules that combine multiple die within a single package are now required, enabling the selection of the optimal process technology for each IC within the package. This provides enhanced integration at the sub-system level and these solutions generate significant size reductions in wireless handset component circuitry. Modules allow our customers to get their product to market more rapidly at a lower overall end product cost due largely to the reduced parts count and reduction in required engineering effort. We believe we are well positioned to address the shift toward more complex multi-chip modules because we possess both extensive process breadth (a key advantage, as modules typically incorporate numerous process technologies) and a large portfolio of RF expertise (e.g., PAs, switches, transceivers, filters, and discretes). Final Test After assembly, packaged ICs are tested prior to shipment to our customers. We outsource the majority of our production RF testing operations, which are performed near our module assembly contractors in Asia. This adds considerable efficiencies to the device manufacturing process in reducing product cycle times and manufacturing costs and supports our initiative to reduce manufacturing costs. Raw Materials GaAs wafers, HBT/pHEMT epitaxial wafers, passive components, other raw materials, and equipment used in the production of our ICs are available from a limited number of sources. See “Risk Factors—Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments.” Research and Development We have made significant investments in our proprietary processes, including product design, packaging and wafer fabrication, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage. Research and development expenses were $46.5 million, $54.5 million and $46.0 million in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We continue to focus our research and development on advanced PAs and front end modules for 3, 3.5 and 4 G wireless markets, and on active splitters, WiFi PAs and Front-End ICs, WiMAX PAs, CATV infrastructure amplifiers and FTTP amplifiers in the broadband market. Further, we develop other components, for example silicon CMOS components, to support our PA module and other products. We do not intend to manufacture this technology in-house, as we believe there will be adequate external foundry capacity available. See “Risk Factors—Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments.” Customers Sales to LGE and RIM accounted for 15% and 14%, respectively, of total net sales during 2009. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during 2009. See “Risk Factors—We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a decrease in purchases and/or change in purchasing patterns by one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenue.” Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 564 employees. Competition We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor and integrated circuit manufacturers of all sizes. Our key competitors are Avago Technologies Limited, Microtune, Inc., RF Micro Devices, Inc., SiGe Semiconductor, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Increased competition could adversely affect our revenue and profitability through price reductions or reduced demand for our products. See “Risk Factors—We face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products’ prices and sales.” Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights It is our practice to seek U.S. patent and copyright protection on our products and developments where appropriate and to protect our valuable technology under U.S. laws affording protection for trade secrets and for semiconductor chip designs. We own 70 U.S. patents and have 9 pending U.S. patent applications. The U.S. patents were issued between 1991 and 2009 and will expire between 2010 and 2027. We rely primarily upon trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. To protect our trade secrets, technical know-how and other proprietary information, our employees are required to enter into agreements providing for maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. We have also entered into non-disclosure agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties in conjunction with possible corporate collaborations and for other purposes. See “Risk Factors—We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others.” Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. These laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediating, and for certain damages resulting from, sites of past releases of hazardous materials. We believe that we currently conduct, and have conducted, our activities and operations in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and that costs arising from existing environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you, however, that such environmental laws and regulations will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur significant costs in the future in order to comply with these laws and regulations. See “Risk Factors—We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations both domestically and abroad.” Available Information Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.anadigics.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov ************************************************************************ ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN STATEMENTS IN THIS REPORT ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED IN THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED) THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CAN GENERALLY BE IDENTIFIED AS SUCH BECAUSE THE CONTEXT OF THE STATEMENT WILL INCLUDE WORDS SUCH AS WE "BELIEVE", "ANTICIPATE", "EXPECT" OR WORDS OF SIMILAR IMPORT. SIMILARLY, STATEMENTS THAT DESCRIBE OUR FUTURE PLANS, OBJECTIVES, ESTIMATES OR GOALS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS MADE IN THIS REPORT SHOULD BE READ AS BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL RELATED FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER THEY APPEAR IN THIS REPORT. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO BE MATERIALLY DIFFERENT FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PRESENTED HEREIN INCLUDE THE RISK FACTORS DISCUSSED BELOW, AS WELL AS THOSE DISCUSSED ELSEWHERE HEREIN. IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY IN EVALUATING AN INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY AND IN ANALYZING OUR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Risks Related to ANADIGICS We have experienced losses in the past, and expect to continue to incur losses. We have incurred substantial operating and net losses in the past. While we had positive operating results during calendar year 2007, we had a net loss in calendar years 2008 and 2009 as a result of the general economic downturn, market factors beyond our control and a loss in market share, and we expect to continue to incur losses in 2010. Additionally, we compete in an industry with limited visibility into customers’ forecasts beyond just a few quarters. If economic conditions worsen or there is an abrupt change in our customers’ businesses or markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Unfavorable general economic conditions in individual or world markets could negatively impact our financial performance. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets, could negatively affect the demand for some of our products. Our customer base includes OEMs that are reliant on consumer demand. Consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending, which can soften demand for our customers’ products and can negatively affect our financial performance. Our results of operations can vary significantly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and our end markets. The semiconductor industry and our end markets have been cyclical, seasonal and subject to significant downturns. In past years, the industry has experienced periods marked by market weaknesses that created lower order demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated declines in average selling prices for our products. These factors negatively affected our financial condition and results of operations during these periods and may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our results of operations also may be subject to significant quarterly and annual fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: (i) changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; (ii) the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; (iii) industry production capacity levels and fluctuations in industry manufacturing yields; (iv) levels of inventory in our end markets; (v) availability and cost of products from our suppliers; (vi) the gain or loss of significant customers; (vii) our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; (viii) new product and technology introductions by competitors; (ix) changes in the mix of products produced and sold; (x) market acceptance of our products and our customers; and (xi) intellectual property disputes. As a result, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. Investors should not rely on our results of operations for any previous period as an indicator of what results may be for any future period. Failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of analysts or investors could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. If we fail to sell a high volume of products, our operating results may be harmed. In calendar years 2007 and 2008 we increased capacity in our manufacturing facility in order to attempt to meet customer demands. At present, we are underutilizing this facility, resulting in excess capacity. This excess capacity means we incur higher fixed costs for our products relative to the revenues we generate. Because large portions of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, our manufacturing volumes are critical to our operating results. If we fail to achieve acceptable manufacturing volumes or experience product shipment delays, our results of operations could be harmed. During periods of decreased demand, our high fixed manufacturing costs negatively affect our results of operations. We base our expense levels in part on our expectations of future orders and these expense levels are predominantly fixed. If we receive fewer customer orders than expected or if our customers delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to reduce our manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to improve utilization levels and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels relative to revenue will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a decrease in purchases and/or change in purchasing patterns by one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenue. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a few significant customers and their subcontractors. Sales to LGE and RIM accounted for 15% and 14%, respectively, of total net sales during 2009. Sales to our greater than 10% customers have approximated or exceeded 30% of total net sales in each of the last three fiscal years. Our financial condition and results of operations have been materially and adversely affected in the past by the failure of anticipated orders to be realized and by deferrals or cancellations of orders as a result of changes in customer requirements. If we were to lose any of our major customers, or if sales to these customers were to decrease materially, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products’ prices and sales. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor and integrated circuit (IC) manufacturers of all sizes, some of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share. We believe that the principal competitive factors for suppliers in our markets include, among others: (i) time-to-market; (ii) timely new product innovation; (iii) product quality, reliability and performance; (iv) product price; (v) features available in products; (vi) compliance with industry standards; (vii) strategic relationships with leading reference design providers and customers; and (viii) access to and protection of intellectual property. Certain of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, distributors, reference design providers or other third parties with whom we have or may in the future have relationships. If our competitors are able to strengthen existing, or establish new, relationships with these third parties they may rapidly acquire market share at our expense, which occurred to some extent in 2008 when we were unable to fully meet customer demand due to capacity constraints. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented restructuring programs in the past and may need to in future. We implemented cost restructuring programs in late 2008 and early 2009, and have implemented other restructuring programs in our history. Such restructuring programs are costly to implement and may inadequately address the operating environment. No assurance can be given that the implementation of cost reduction programs will generate the anticipated cost savings and other benefits or that future or additional measures may be required. We could incorrectly anticipate the extent and term of the market decline and weakness for our products and services and we may be forced to restructure further or may incur future operating charges due to poor business conditions. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes and the processes of our vendors. The fabrication of integrated circuits, particularly those made of GaAs, is a highly complex and precise process. Our integrated circuits are primarily manufactured on wafers made of GaAs requiring multiple process steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, downtime on equipment, human error, interruptions in electrical supply or a number of other factors can cause a substantial interruption in our manufacturing processes. Moreover, our manufacturing process is subject to fluctuations in our demand and fab utilization. In an environment of increasing manufacturing output and personnel to satisfy increasing demand, we may incur manufacturing disruptions limiting supply to customers. Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at our production facility or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may include electrical power outages, fire, earthquakes, flooding, international conflicts, war, acts of terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause significant delays in our shipments unless and until we are able to shift the manufacturing of such products from an affected facility to another facility or the disruption is remedied. Furthermore, many of our customers require that they qualify a new manufacturing source before they will accept products from such source. This qualification process may be expensive and time consuming. In the event of such delays, we cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, would be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative manufacturing capacity or assembly and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external manufacturing. Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption at the Warren, New Jersey semiconductor wafer fab, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be readily available from third-party sources. Any disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also depend on certain vendors for components, equipment and services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, and thereby, our results of operations. Our dependence on foreign semiconductor component suppliers, assembly and test operations contractors could lead to delays in or reductions of product shipments. We do not assemble or test all of our integrated circuits or multi-chip modules. Instead, we provide the integrated circuit die and, in some cases, packaging and other components to assembly and test vendors located primarily in Asia. Our products contain numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products, obtained from external suppliers. The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, quality, fabrication costs, warranty issues and protection of intellectual property. Further, we are dependent upon a few foreign semiconductor assembly and test subcontractors. If these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products and, therefore, our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain sufficient high quality and timely component parts, assembly or test service, if we experience delays in transferring or requalifying our production between suppliers, assembly or test locations or if means of transportation to or from these locations are interrupted, we would experience increased costs, delays or reductions in product shipment, and/or reduced product yields, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. We do not manufacture any of the starting wafers, packaging or passive components used in the production of our gallium arsenide integrated circuits. While we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a sole-source supplier for certain epitaxial wafers used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing processes at our manufacturing facility. If we were to lose this sole source of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. Packaging and passive components are available from a limited number of sources. To the extent that we are unable to obtain these packaging or passive components in the required quantities, as has occurred from time to time in the past, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of vendors to supply the equipment used in our manufacturing processes. When demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is high, lead times for delivery of such equipment can be substantial. We cannot assure you that we would not lose potential sales if required manufacturing equipment is unavailable and, as a result, we are unable to maintain or increase our production levels. A delay for any reason in increasing capacity would limit our ability to increase sales volumes, which could harm our relationships with customers. The variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins. Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular integrated circuit’s design and our experience in manufacturing that type of integrated circuit. We have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which have adversely affected our gross margins. Regardless of the process technology used, the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties can include: (i) defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers; (ii) impurities in the materials used; (iii) operator errors; (iv) contamination of the manufacturing environment; (v) equipment failure; and (vi) interruptions in electrical supply. Many of our manufacturing costs are fixed and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time. Therefore, it is critical for us to increase the number of shippable integrated circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain or improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and have done so in the past. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. If any new yield problems were to arise or any existing yield problems were to continue, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our products may experience significant declines in unit prices. In each of the markets where we compete, prices of established products tend to decline significantly over time and in some cases rapidly. Accordingly, in order to remain competitive, we believe that we must continue to develop product enhancements and new technologies that will either slow the price declines of our products or reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. If we fail to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The short life cycles of some of our products may leave us with obsolete or excess inventories. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. For example, we estimate that current life cycles for wireless handsets, and in turn our wireless products, are approximately 9 to 12 months. Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely. We cannot assure you that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed, will not result in significant charges that will negatively affect our operating profit and net income. We will need to keep pace with rapid product and process development and technological changes as well as product cost reductions to be competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid changes in both product and process technologies based on the continuous demand for product enhancements, higher levels of integration, decreased size and reduced power consumption. Because the continuous evolution of these technologies and frequent introduction of new products and enhancements have generally resulted in short product life cycles for our products, we believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve the efficiency of our products and process technologies and rapidly develop new products and process technologies. The successful development of our products is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, and our ability to protect, develop or otherwise obtain adequate intellectual property for our new products. If a competing technology emerges that is, or is perceived to be, superior to our existing technology and we are unable to develop and/or implement the new technology successfully or to develop and implement a competitive and economically acceptable alternative technology, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This implementation may require us to modify the manufacturing process for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and redesign some existing products, which may prove difficult for us and result in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We will need to make substantial investments to develop these enhancements and technologies, and we cannot assure investors that we will have funds available for these investments or that these enhancements and technologies will be successful. If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur significant additional costs. The fabrication of integrated circuits from substrate materials and the modules containing these components is a highly complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to rework or replace the products. Our products may contain undetected defects or failures that only become evident after we commence volume shipments, which we may experience from time to time. Other defects or failures may also occur in the future. If such failures or defects occur, we could: (i) lose revenues; (ii) incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; (iii) experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; or (iv) experience increased product returns or discounts. Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally PAs and switches, which tend to be more expensive than their silicon counterparts. The cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. We expect the cost of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue for the foreseeable future to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. In addition, silicon semiconductor technologies are widely-used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts. If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify their higher cost, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that there will continue to be products and markets that require the performance attributes of gallium arsenide solutions. We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. In the future, we may need to access sources of financing to fund our growth. Taking into consideration our cash balance as of December 31, 2009, including marketable securities, of $92.5 million, we believe that our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, interest and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that the capital required to fund these expenditures will be available in the future. Conditions existing in the U.S. capital markets, as well as the then current condition of our company, will affect our ability to raise capital, as well as the terms of any financing. We may not be able to raise enough capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all. Failure to obtain capital when required could have a material adverse affect on us. In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future. Our marketable securities’ liquidity and valuation could be affected by disruption in financial markets. We maintain investments in financial instruments including corporate debt obligations, auction rate securities, certificates of deposit and government-related obligations, which included $6.6 million carrying value of auction rate securities at December 31, 2009. These investments must be supported by actively trading financial markets in order to be liquid investments. Financial markets can temporarily or permanently have an imbalance of buyers and sellers that can impact valuations and liquidity. Auction rate markets have experienced imbalances since late 2007 and may continue to be imbalanced. Such imbalances could negatively impact the fair value of our investments, requiring a charge against income as occurred in 2007, 2008 and 2009, our access to cash and the liquidity of our marketable securities. We can not assure you that our marketable securities could be sold for their carrying value or in our required time frame to support our intermediate term cashflow and liquidity needs. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. A small number of key executive officers manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified manufacturing personnel, technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry as the emerging broadband wireless and wireline communications markets develop, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining highly qualified manufacturing personnel, technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material effect on our ability to operate our business. We do not presently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executive officers. We are subject to risks due to our international customer base and our subcontracting operations. Sales to customers located outside the United States (based on shipping addresses and not on the locations of ultimate end users) accounted for 95%, 94% and 93% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. In addition, independent third parties located in Asia supply a substantial portion of the starting wafers and packaging components that we use in the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits, and assemble and test nearly all of our products. Due to our reliance on international sales and on foreign suppliers, assemblers and test houses, we are subject to risks of conducting business outside of the United States, including primarily those arising from local economic and political conditions, fluctuations in exchange rates, international health epidemics, natural disasters, restrictive governmental actions (e.g., exchange controls, duties, etc.), limitation of protecting intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions and potential acts of terrorism. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations both domestically and abroad. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Although we are aware of contamination resulting from historical third-party operations at one of our facilities, a prior owner of such facility has been performing, and paying for the costs associated with, remediation of this property pursuant to an agreement with the state environmental regulatory authority. However, we cannot assure you that such prior owner will continue to do so or that we will not incur any material costs or liabilities associated with compliance with environmental laws in the future. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and copyrights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may violate our patents or copyrights. In addition to intellectual property that we have patented and copyrighted, we also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our collaborators and employees. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others. We seek to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have been notified, and may be notified in the future, that we may be infringing on certain patents and/or other intellectual property rights of other parties. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to litigation to defend our products or processes against claims of patent infringement or other intellectual property claims. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially reasonable terms and we may be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and cease production of our work product or use of one or more manufacturing processes. Even if we are ultimately successful, patent litigation can be time consuming, disruptive to management and expensive. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may pursue selective acquisitions and alliances and the management and integration of additional operations could be expensive and could divert management time and acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Our ability to complete acquisitions or alliances is dependent upon, and may be limited to, the availability of suitable candidates and capital. In addition, acquisitions and alliances involve risks that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including the management time that may be diverted from operations in order to pursue and complete such transactions and difficulties in integrating and managing the additional operations and personnel of acquired companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the capital necessary to consummate acquisitions or alliances on satisfactory terms, if at all. Further, any businesses that we acquire will likely have their own capital needs, which may be significant, which we could be called upon to satisfy independent of the acquisition price. Future acquisitions or alliances could result in additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any additional debt could subject us to substantial and burdensome covenants. The growth that may result from future acquisitions or alliances may place significant strains on our resources, systems and management. If we are unable to effectively manage such growth by implementing systems, expanding our infrastructure and hiring, training and managing employees, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we issue additional shares of our common stock in order to acquire another business, our stockholders’ interest in us, or the combined company, could be materially diluted. We have had significant volatility in our stock price and it may fluctuate in the future. Therefore, you may be unable to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for such shares. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: (i) our operating results and prospects; (ii) the operating results and prospects of our major customers; (iii) announcements by our competitors; (iv) the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; (v) investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; (vi) changes in our earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts covering our stock; (vii) general financial and other market conditions; and (viii) domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility significantly affected and may in the future affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and our stockholders’ rights agreement and of Delaware law could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us and that could deprive you of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. In addition, we have a stockholders’ rights agreement that under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of us without prior approval of our board of directors. Together, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, certain provisions of Delaware law and our stockholders’ rights agreement may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock and could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We and certain of our officers and directors are defendants in litigation and the outcome of these lawsuits may, to the extent not covered by insurance, negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Since late 2008, the Company and certain of its former and current officers and/or directors have been parties to a now consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. This lawsuit alleges federal securities fraud claims and seeks unspecified damages arising out of the alleged non-disclosure of information concerning, among other things, manufacturing inefficiencies and customer demand. The alleged class period runs from July 24, 2007 through August 7, 2008. In early 2009, two shareholders’ derivative lawsuits were filed in New Jersey Superior Court against the Company, as a nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former directors, alleging state law claims and seeking unspecified damages arising out of the same events at issue in the putative class action lawsuits. Neither the putative class action lawsuits nor the shareholders’ derivative lawsuits have yet advanced beyond the preliminary procedural stages. (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional details on these cases and related matters.) At this time, we cannot predict the probable outcome of these lawsuits. The pendency of these lawsuits, and any others that might subsequently be filed against us, could divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any adverse outcome in any one of these lawsuits may, to the extent not reimbursed by insurance, have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 