Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, may cause future results of operations to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. The Company’s forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions and estimates that are subject to significant uncertainties. The Company’s performance may not be consistent with these forecasts or forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and other documents filed with the SEC, the Company publishes forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding its future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast or forward-looking statement related to the Company’s future performance reflects various assumptions and estimates, which are subject to significant uncertainties, and the achievement of any forecast or forward-looking statement depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. If these assumptions and estimates prove to be incorrect, or any of the risks or other factors occur, then the Company’s performance may not be consistent with these forecasts or forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to rely solely on such forward-looking statements, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire mix of publicly available historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting the Company, the Company’s services and the Company’s industry, when evaluating the Company’s forecasts and other forward-looking statements relating to the Company’s operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, fires and flooding, work stoppages and terrorism could severely damage the Company’s systems and facilities or interrupt the Company’s operations and result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Natural disasters, such as fires, flooding, earthquakes and tornadoes, power loss, break-ins, work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism or other similar events, could severely damage the Company’s systems and facilities or interrupt the Company’s operations, potentially resulting in temporary or permanent loss of the Company’s manufacturing capability. Some of the Company’s products cannot currently be made, or made in the volume required, at more than one of the Company’s locations. For some of these products, the Company has access to external market suppliers, but the Company cannot guarantee that these products will be available to it in amounts sufficient to meet its requirements or at a cost that is competitive with the Company’s cost of manufacturing these products. While the Company maintains insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that it would be sufficient to cover any or all losses resulting from the occurrence of any of these events or that insurance 6 carriers would not deny coverage for these losses even if they are insured. There is also a risk, beyond the reasonable control of the Company, that an insurance carrier may not have the financial resources to cover an insurable loss. As a result, the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company faces significant global competition in each of its operating segments. If the Company cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, its profitability, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. The Company faces significant competition from numerous global companies as well as national, regional and local companies in the markets it serves. In addition, some of the Company’s customers have internal manufacturing capabilities that allow them to achieve make-versus-buy economics, which may result at times in the Company gaining or losing business with these customers in volumes that could adversely affect its profitability. To achieve expected profitability levels, the Company must, among other things, maintain the service levels, product quality and performance and competitive pricing necessary to retain existing customers and attract new customers. The Company’s inability to do so could place it at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors, and if the Company cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. The volatility of raw material, natural gas and electricity costs as well as any disruption in their supply may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The costs of raw materials, natural gas and electricity represent a substantial portion of the Company’s operating costs. The principal raw materials used in the Company’s products are petroleum-based or plant-based. Natural gas is used in the Company’s manufacturing sites primarily to generate steam for its manufacturing processes. The prices of many of these raw materials have recently been very volatile. These fluctuations in prices may be affected by supply and demand factors, such as general economic conditions, manufacturers’ ability to meet demand, restrictions on the transport of raw material (some of which may be viewed as hazardous), currency exchange rates, political instability and terrorist attacks, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may not be able to pass increased raw material and natural gas prices on to customers through increases in product prices as a result of arrangements the Company has with certain customers and competitive pressures in the market. If the Company is unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material and energy costs or pass such increased costs on to customers, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. 7 The Company relies heavily on third party transportation to deliver raw materials to Company manufacturing facilities and ship products to Company customers. Disruptions in transportation or significant changes in transportation costs could affect the Company’s operating results. The Company relies heavily on railroads, barges and other over-the-road shipping methods to transport raw materials to its manufacturing facilities and to ship finished product to customers. Transport operations are exposed to various risks, such as extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards, as well as interstate transportation regulations. If the Company is unable to ship finished product or unable to obtain raw materials due to transportation problems, or if there are significant changes in the cost of these services, the Company may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship product, which could result in an adverse effect on Company revenues, costs and operating results. Customer product reformulations can reduce the demand for the Company’s products. The Company’s products are used in a broad range of customer product applications. Customer product reformulations may lead to reduced consumption of Company-produced products or make some Company products unnecessary. It is imperative that the Company develops new products to replace the sales of products that mature and decline in use. The Company’s business, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if the Company is unable to manage successfully the maturation of existing products and the introduction of new products. If the Company is unable to keep and protect its intellectual property rights, the Company’s ability to compete may be negatively impacted. The Company relies on intellectual property rights for the manufacture, distribution and sale of its products in all three of its reportable segments. Although most of the Company’s intellectual property rights are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which it operates, the Company may not be able to assert these rights successfully in the future or guarantee that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Other parties may infringe on the Company’s intellectual property rights, which may dilute the value of such rights. Any infringement on the Company’s intellectual property rights would also likely result in diversion of management’s time and the Company’s resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any loss of protection of these intellectual property rights could adversely affect the future financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. 8 The Company is subject to risks related to its operations outside the U.S. The Company has substantial operations outside the U.S. In the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company’s sales outside of the U.S. constituted approximately 40 percent of the Company’s net sales. In addition to the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are common to both the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. operations, the Company faces, and will continue to face, risks related to the Company’s foreign operations such as: • foreign currency fluctuations; • unstable political, economic, financial and market conditions; • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • increases in tariffs and taxes; • high levels of inflation; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • less favorable intellectual property laws; • changes in foreign laws and regulations; and • changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. All of these risks have affected the Company’s business in the past and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future. The Company is also exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates. The Company’s results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars. However, outside the U.S., the Company’s sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies including the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Colombian peso, Philippine peso, Brazilian real, Polish zloty, Singapore dollar and Chinese RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In all jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the Company is also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. These laws and regulations may limit the Company’s ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the U.S. and may limit the Company’s ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into U.S. dollars. A weakening of the currencies in which the Company generates sales relative to the foreign currencies in which the Company’s costs are denominated may lower the Company’s operating profits and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety and product registration laws that expose the Company to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. The Company’s operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air, soil and water as well as the use, handling, 9 storage and disposal of these materials. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state, local and foreign laws, and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances Act (REACH). Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations is a major consideration for the Company because the Company uses hazardous materials in some of the Company’s manufacturing processes. In addition, compliance with environmental laws could restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities or require the Company to acquire additional costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify its manufacturing processes. The Company has incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures and operating costs in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, because the Company generates hazardous wastes during some of its manufacturing processes, the Company, along with any other entity that disposes or arranges for the disposal of the Company’s wastes, may be subject to financial exposure for costs associated with any investigation and remediation of sites at which the Company has disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if those sites become contaminated, even if the Company fully complied with applicable environmental laws at the time of disposal. In the event that new contamination is discovered, the Company may become subject to additional requirements with respect to existing contamination or the Company’s clean-up obligations. The Company is also subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws that regulate the manufacture, storage, distribution and labeling of many of the Company’s products, including some of the Company’s disinfecting, sanitizing and antimicrobial products. Some of these laws require the Company to have operating permits for the Company’s production facilities, warehouse facilities and operations. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also require the Company to register the Company’s products and to comply with specified requirements with respect to those products. If the Company fails to comply with any of these laws and regulations, it may be liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions in excess of the Company’s recorded liabilities, and may also be subject to fines, injunctions or criminal sanctions or to revocation, non-renewal or modification of the Company’s operating permits and revocation of the Company’s product registrations. Any such revocation, modification or non-renewal may require the Company to cease or limit the manufacture and sale of its products at one or more of the Company’s facilities, which may limit or prevent the Company’s ability to meet product demand or build new facilities and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any such revocation, non-renewal or modification may also result in an event of default under the indenture for the Company’s notes or under the Company’s credit facilities, which, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of all the Company’s indebtedness. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, the Company has incurred and may incur in the future costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. The Company may be a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against the Company 10 could harm its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Although the Company has insurance that may cover some of these potential losses, there is always uncertainty as to whether such insurance may be available to the Company based on case-specific factors and the specific provisions of the Company’s insurance policies. The potential cost to the Company relating to environmental, health and safety and product registration matters, including the cost of complying with the foregoing legislation and remediating contamination, is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety and product registration, including those outside of the U.S., and the timing, variable costs and effectiveness of clean-up and compliance methods. Environmental and product registration laws may also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, as well as restricting or prohibiting the sale of existing or new products, which may also negatively impact the Company’s operating results. Without limiting the foregoing, these laws or regulations may restrict or prohibit the use of non-renewable or carbon-based substances, or impose fees or penalties for the use of these substances. Accordingly, the Company may become subject to additional liabilities and increased operating costs in the future under these laws and regulations. The impact of any such changes, which are unknown at this time, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Other laws and regulations that apply to the Company may be changed to impose additional requirements beyond those that apply under current laws and regulations, and/or impose additional costs or have negative financial effects on the Company. Such changes, which are unknown at this time and beyond the Company’s reasonable control, could have a material impact on the Company. The Company’s inability to estimate and maintain appropriate levels of recorded liabilities for existing and future contingencies may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The liabilities recorded by the Company for pending and threatened legal proceedings are estimates based on various assumptions. An adverse ruling or external forces, such as changes in the rate of inflation, the regulatory environment and other factors that could prove such assumptions to be no longer appropriate, may affect the accuracy of these estimates. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the Company’s actual liabilities could differ significantly from the amounts the Company recorded to cover any existing and future contingencies. If the Company’s actual liability is higher than estimated or any new legal proceeding is initiated, it could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect the Company’s business and operations. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had $182.4 million of debt 11 on its balance sheet. U.S. debt included $152.1 million in unsecured promissory notes with maturities extending from 2013 until 2023. In addition, to provide liquidity, the Company has a $125.0 million revolving credit facility. The Company’s foreign subsidiaries also maintain bank term loans and short-term bank lines of credit in their respective countries to meet working capital requirements as well as to fund capital expenditure programs and acquisitions. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries’ aggregate outstanding debt totaled $30.3 million. The Company’s current indebtedness and any additional indebtedness incurred in the future may materially and adversely affect its business and operations. For example, it could: • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on the Company’s debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; • limit the Company’s ability to borrow funds that may be needed to operate and expand its business; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the Company’s business and the industries in which the Company operates; • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in the Company’s business; and • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. The Company’s loan agreements contain provisions, which, among others, require maintenance of certain financial ratios and place limitations on additional debt, investments and payment of dividends. Failure to comply with these loan agreements would require debt restructuring that could be materially adverse to the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, any future disruptions in the credit and financial markets may reduce the availability of debt financing or refinancing and increase the costs associated with such financing. If the Company is unable to secure financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, its financial positions, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Downturns in certain industries and general economic downturns may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Economic downturns adversely affect some users of the variety of end products that are manufactured using the Company’s products and the industries in which end products are used. These users may reduce their volume of purchases of such end products during economic downturns, which would reduce demand for the Company’s products. Additionally, uncertain conditions in the credit markets pose a risk to the overall economy that may impact 12 consumer and customer demand of some of the Company’s products, as well as the Company’s ability to manage normal commercial relationships with its customers, suppliers and creditors. Some of the Company’s customers may not be able to meet the terms of sale and suppliers may not be able to fully perform their contractual obligations due to tighter credit markets or a general slowdown in economic activity. In the event that economic conditions worsen or result in a prolonged downturn or recession, the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be materially and adversely affected. Various liability claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position, operating results and cash flows. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. The Company faces an inherent exposure to various types of claims including general liability, product liability, product recall, toxic tort and environmental (“claims”), among others, if its products, or the end products that are manufactured with the Company’s products, result in property damage, injury or death. In addition, because the Company conducts business in multiple jurisdictions, the Company also faces an inherent exposure to other general claims based on its operations in those jurisdictions and the laws of those jurisdictions, including but not limited to claims arising from its relationship with employees, distributors, agents and customers, and other parties with whom it has a business relationship, directly or indirectly. Many of these claims may be made against the Company even if there is no evidence of a loss from that claim, and these claims may be either made by individual entities, or potentially a group of plaintiffs in a class action. Defending these claims could result in significant legal expenses relating to defense costs and/or damage awards and diversion of management’s time and the Company’s resources. Any claim brought against the Company, net of potential insurance recoveries, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 