Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, may cause future results of operations to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. The Company’s forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions and estimates that are subject to significant uncertainties. The Company’s performance may not be consistent with these forecasts or forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and other documents filed with the SEC, the Company publishes forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding its future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast or forward-looking statement related to the Company’s future performance reflects various assumptions and estimates, which are subject to significant uncertainties, and the achievement of any forecast or forward-looking statement depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. If these assumptions and estimates prove to be incorrect, or any of the risks or other factors occur, then the Company’s performance may not be consistent with these forecasts or forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of the Company’s business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire mix of publicly available historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting the Company, the Company’s services and the Company’s industry, when evaluating the Company’s forecasts and other forward-looking statements relating to the Company’s operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, fires and flooding, work stoppages and terrorism could severely damage the Company’s systems and facilities or interrupt the Company’s operations and result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Natural disasters, such as fires, flooding, earthquakes and tornadoes, power loss, break-ins, work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism or other similar events could severely damage the Company’s systems and facilities or interrupt the Company’s operations, potentially resulting in temporary or permanent loss of the Company’s manufacturing capability. Some of the Company’s products cannot currently be made, or made in the volume required, at more than one of the Company’s locations. For some of these products, the Company has access to external market suppliers, but the Company cannot guarantee that these products will be available to it in the market or at a cost that is competitive with the Company’s cost of manufacturing these products. While the Company maintains insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that it would be sufficient to cover any or all losses resulting from the occurrence of any of these events or that carriers would not deny coverage for these losses even if they are insured. As a result, the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 4 Table of Contents The Company faces significant competition in each of its operating segments. If the Company cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, its profitability, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. The worldwide market for the Company’s products is highly competitive. The Company also faces significant competition from numerous national, regional and local companies within some or all of its product categories in each market it serves. In addition, some of the Company’s customers have internal manufacturing capabilities that allow them to achieve make-versus-buy economics, which may result at times in the Company gaining or losing business with these customers in volumes that could adversely affect its profitability. To achieve expected profitability levels, the Company must, among other things, maintain the service levels and competitive pricing necessary to retain existing customers and attract new customers. The Company’s inability to do so could put it at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors, and if the Company cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. The volatility of raw material, natural gas and electricity costs as well as any disruption in their supply may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The principal raw materials used in the Company’s products are petroleum-based or plant-based. Natural gas is used in the Company’s manufacturing sites primarily to generate steam for its manufacturing processes. The prices of many of these raw materials are cyclical, and the market price of natural gas has recently been very volatile. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond the Company’s control, generally affect the price of these raw materials and natural gas. The Company may not be able to pass increased raw material and natural gas prices on to customers through increases in product prices as a result of arrangements the Company has with certain customers and competitive pressures in the market. The Company tries to minimize the effect of increases in the prices of raw materials, natural gas and electricity through production efficiency, the use of alternative suppliers and, in the case of natural gas, the use of forward purchase contracts. If the Company is unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material and energy costs, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the supply of some of these raw materials may be disrupted for many reasons, including but not limited to the manufacturers’ inability to produce these raw materials or restrictions on the transport of these raw materials, some of which may be viewed as hazardous. 5 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to keep and protect its intellectual property rights, the Company’s ability to compete may be negatively impacted. The Company has intellectual property rights in all three reportable segments. Although most of the Company’s intellectual property rights are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which it operates, the Company may not be able to assert these rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Other parties may infringe on the Company’s intellectual property rights, which may dilute their value. Any infringement on the Company’s intellectual property rights would also likely result in diversion of management’s time and the Company’s resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any loss of protection of these intellectual property rights could adversely affect the future results of operations and cash flows of the Company. The Company is subject to risks related to its operations outside the U.S. The Company has substantial operations outside the U.S. In the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company’s sales outside of the U.S. constituted approximately 34 percent of the Company’s net sales. In addition to the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K that are common to both the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. operations, the Company faces, and will continue to face, risks related to the Company’s foreign operations such as: • foreign currency fluctuations; • unstable political, economic, financial and market conditions; • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • increases in tariffs and taxes; • high levels of inflation; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • less favorable intellectual property laws; • unfamiliarity with and changes in foreign laws and regulations; and • changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. All of these risks have affected the Company’s business in the past and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future. The Company is also exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates. The Company’s results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars. However, outside the U.S., the Company’s sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies including the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Colombian peso, Brazilian real and Chinese RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 6 Table of Contents In all jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the Company is also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. These laws and regulations may limit the Company’s ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the U.S. and may limit the Company’s ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into U.S. dollars. A weakening of the currencies in which the Company generates sales relative to the foreign currencies in which the Company’s costs are denominated may lower the Company’s operating profits and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety and product registration laws that expose the Company to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. The Company’s operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air, soil and water as well as the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. These laws and regulations include the U.S. Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state, local and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations is a major consideration for the Company because the Company uses hazardous materials in some of the Company’s manufacturing processes. In addition, compliance with environmental laws could restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities or require the Company to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify its manufacturing processes. The Company has incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures and operating costs in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, because the Company is a generator of hazardous wastes, the Company, along with any other person who disposes or arranges for the disposal of the Company’s wastes, may be subject to financial exposure for costs associated with any investigation and remediation of sites at which the Company has disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if those sites become contaminated, even if the Company fully complied with applicable environmental laws at the time of disposal. In the event that new contamination is discovered, the Company may become subject to additional requirements with respect to existing contamination or the Company’s clean-up obligations. The Company is also subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws that regulate the manufacture, storage, distribution and labeling of many of the Company’s products, including some of the Company’s disinfecting, sanitizing and antimicrobial products. Some of these laws require the Company to have operating permits for the Company’s production facilities, warehouse facilities and operations. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also require the Company to register the Company’s products and to comply with specified requirements with respect to those products. If the Company fails to comply with any of these laws and regulations, it may be liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions in excess of the Company’s reserves, and may also be subject to fines, injunctions or criminal sanctions or to revocation, non-renewal or modification of the Company’s operating permits and revocation of the Company’s product registrations. Any such revocation, modification or non-renewal may require the Company to cease or limit the manufacture and sale of its products at one or more of the Company’s facilities, which may limit or prevent the Company’s ability to meet product demand or build new facilities and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any such revocation, non-renewal 7 Table of Contents or modification may also result in an event of default under the indenture for the Company’s notes or under the Company’s credit facilities, which, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of all the Company’s indebtedness. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, the Company has incurred and may incur in the future costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. The Company may be a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against the Company could harm its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The potential cost to the Company relating to environmental, health and safety and product registration matters, including the cost of complying with the foregoing legislation and remediating contamination, is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety and product registration, including those outside of the U.S., and the timing, variable costs and effectiveness of clean-up and compliance methods. Environmental and product registration laws may also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, which may also negatively impact the Company’s operating results. Without limiting the foregoing, these laws or regulations may restrict or prohibit the use of non-renewable or carbon-based substances, or impose fees or penalties for the use of these substances. Accordingly, the Company may become subject to additional liabilities and increased operating costs in the future under these laws and regulations that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s inability to estimate and maintain appropriate levels of reserves for existing and future contingencies may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The levels of reserves maintained by the Company for pending and threatened legal proceedings are estimates based on various assumptions. An adverse ruling or external forces such as changes in the rate of inflation, the regulatory environment and other factors that could prove such assumptions to be incorrect may affect the accuracy of these estimates. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the Company’s actual liability could differ significantly from the amounts the Company reserved to cover any existing and future contingencies. If the Company’s actual liability is higher than estimated or any new legal proceeding is initiated, it could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect the Company’s business and operations. The Company has a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s domestic debt totaled $97.5 million, including $86.4 million of unsecured promissory notes with maturities extending until 2018. In addition, to provide liquidity, the Company has a $60 million revolving credit facility, under which there were borrowings of $11.1 million as of December 31, 2007. The Company’s foreign subsidiaries also maintain bank term loans and short-term bank lines of credit in their respective countries to meet working capital requirements as well as to fund capital expenditure programs and acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s subsidiaries’ aggregate outstanding debt totaled $30.5 million. The Company’s current indebtedness and any additional indebtedness incurred in the future may materially and adversely affect its business and operations. For example, it could: • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on the Company’s debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; • make it more difficult for the Company to make payments on its indebtedness; • limit the Company’s ability to borrow funds that may be needed to operate and expand its business; • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in the Company’s business; and • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. The Company’s loan agreements contain provisions, which, among others, require maintenance of certain financial ratios and place limitations on additional debt, investments and payment of dividends. Failure to comply with these loan agreements would require debt restructuring that could be materially adverse to the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. General economic downturns may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. General economic downturns adversely affect some users of the variety of end products that are manufactured using the Company’s products. These users may reduce their volume of purchases of such end products during economic downturns. Any future general economic downturn may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents If the Company is unable retain key employees and other personnel, its operations and growth may be adversely affected. The Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of its management team and other key personnel. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit the Company. If any of the Company’s senior management or other key personnel ceases to work for us, its operations and growth may be adversely affected. Various liability claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position, operating results and cash flows. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. The Company faces an inherent exposure to various types of claims including general liability, product liability, toxic tort and environmental (“claims”), among others, if its products, or the end products that are manufactured with the Company’s products, result in property damage, injury or death. Various claims may be made against the Company even if there is no evidence that its products cause a loss. Claims could result in significant expenses relating to defense costs or damages awards and in a diversion of management’s time and the Company’s resources. Any claim brought against the Company could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 