Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Consumer Spending Patterns Sales of books, music and movies have historically been dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. We believe that 2010 will be a challenging year due to continued uncertainty in the economic environment. We also believe that the increase in consumer spending via Internet retailers and on eBooks may significantly affect our ability to generate sales in our stores. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books, music and movies, or a significant shift to the purchase of eBooks from physical books, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to fund our business strategy. 8 Table of Contents Economic Conditions Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions. Worldwide economic conditions and consumer spending have deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for some time. Some of the factors that are having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include increased unemployment, reductions in disposable income as a result of financial market declines and declines in residential real estate values, credit availability and consumer confidence. Competitive Environment We have experienced operating losses over the last two years and such losses may continue. We believe that the losses are attributable to a number of factors, including increased competition from Internet retailers and a greater concentration on the sale of books and music by mass merchants and other non-bookstore retailers. In addition, with respect to music and movies, the downloading of titles has significantly impacted our sale of CDs and DVDs. The increasing popularity of eBooks has the potential to significantly impact our sales of physical books. Also, the overall consumer demand for products that we sell, particularly music and movies, has either declined or not experienced significant growth in recent years. The retail book business is highly competitive. Competition within the retail book industry is fragmented, with Borders facing competition from the Internet and other superstore operators. In addition, Borders and Waldenbooks compete with other specialty retail stores that offer books in a particular area of specialty, independent single store operators, discount stores, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs, mass merchandisers and other non-bookstore retailers. In the future, Borders and Waldenbooks may face additional competition from other categories of Internet and brick and mortar retailers entering the retail book market. The music and movie businesses are also highly competitive and Borders faces competition from large established music chains, established movie chains, as well as specialty retail stores, movie rental stores, discount stores, warehouse clubs and mass merchandisers. In addition, consumers receive television and mail order offers and have access to mail order clubs. The largest mail order clubs are affiliated with major manufacturers of pre-recorded music and may have advantageous marketing relationships with their affiliates. The Internet is a significant channel for retailing in all media categories that we carry. In particular, the retailing of books, music and movies over the Internet is highly competitive. In addition, we face competition from companies engaged in the business of selling books, music and movies via electronic means, including the downloading of books, music and movie content. Availability of Capital Resources Our success is dependent on the availability of adequate capital to fund our operations and to carry out our strategic plans. Key drivers of our cash flows are sales, expense management, capital spending and our inventory turn improvement initiative. There can be no assurance that we will have access to adequate capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. On March 31, 2010, we entered into a Third Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which replaces our prior senior revolving credit agreement, and a Term Loan Agreement (the “Term Loan Agreement”) under which we have obtained a secured term loan. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement is subject to borrowing base restrictions calculated based primarily on the estimated net orderly liquidation value of our eligible inventory. Our lenders have significant discretion in determining the eligibility of inventory for purposes the borrowing base restrictions under the Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement. Our lenders are also permitted under certain circumstances to reduce the percentage of our eligible inventories used to calculate our borrowing base. If our lenders reduce the percentage of eligible inventory used to calculate 9 Table of Contents our borrowing base, the amounts we will be permitted to borrow under the Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement could be materially reduced and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition to being subject to borrowing base restrictions, we are required to maintain specified levels of excess availability in order to continue to borrow under the Credit Agreement. Similar excess availability requirements apply under the Term Loan Agreement, including a seasonal excess availability requirement that obligates us to maintain higher levels of excess availability under the Term Loan Agreement during the months of December and January of each year. If we fail to achieve at least 80% of our projected consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, these increased excess availability requirements will become applicable throughout the year. If at any time we fail to meet the borrowing base or excess availability requirements under the Term Loan Facility, the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility will be required to reduce the availability under the Credit Agreement by a corresponding amount. In addition, under the Term Loan Agreement, if we do not complete an offering of equity securities resulting in net proceeds of at least $25 million within 45 days after the date of the Term Loan Agreement, a reserve of $10 million will be recorded against the borrowing base under the Credit Agreement, which will reduce the amounts we are permitted to borrow under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, make investments, make restricted payments (including any required cash-out of the Pershing Square warrants) or specified payments and merge or acquire assets, among other things. In addition, certain additional covenants, including fixed charge coverage ratio requirements, would be triggered if availability under the Credit Agreement falls below certain specified levels. The lenders under the Credit Agreement may also be permitted to assume dominion and control over our cash and cash equivalents if availability under the Credit Agreement falls below certain specified levels. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and implement our business strategy and could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We plan to operate our business and execute our strategic initiatives principally with funds generated from operations, financing through the Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement, credit provided by our vendors and other sources of new financing, including potential equity financing, as deemed necessary and available. In addition, our liquidity is impacted by a number of factors, including our sales levels, the amount of credit that our vendors extend to us and our borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement. We rely upon vendor credit to finance approximately 45% of our inventory (calculated as trade accounts payable divided by merchandise inventories). We are working closely with vendors to optimize inventory levels to improve our performance and to maintain acceptable levels of payables with our vendors. Based on current internal sales projections, current vendor payable support and borrowing capacity, as well as other initiatives to maximize cash flow, we believe that we will have adequate capital to fund our operations during fiscal 2010. However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our internal sales projections or that we will be able to maintain our current vendor payable support or borrowing capacity, and any failure to do so could result in us having insufficient funds for our operations. Potential Dilution Resulting from Equity Offerings We may seek to raise additional capital through one or more public or private offerings of our common stock or derivative securities that are exercisable or exchangeable for or convertible into shares of our common stock. Any such offering may be at a price per share that is substantially less than the trading price of our common stock at the time of the offering. Any offering of common stock or derivative securities could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and in significant dilution to the holders of outstanding shares of our common stock. In connection with the term loan to the Company made by Pershing Square, we have issued warrants to Pershing Square to acquire 14.7 million shares of our common stock, which currently represent approximately 19.7% of our outstanding shares. Under the terms of the Pershing Square warrants, if we issue shares of our common stock or derivative securities at a price less than $0.65 per share, the exercise price of the outstanding Pershing Square warrants will be 10 Table of Contents reduced to the lowest price at which such shares or securities are issued. In addition, if we issue shares of our common stock or derivative securities in an offering transaction, we will be obligated to issue additional warrants to Pershing Square with an exercise price of $0.65 per share so that the fully-diluted percentage of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of Pershing Square’s warrants is not reduced as a result of the offering. Due to this provision, holders of our common stock may suffer significant dilution in addition to any dilution resulting directly from the offering of our common stock or derivative securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital through offerings of our common stock or derivative securities or with respect to the price or other terms and conditions that may be applicable to any such offering. Business Strategy Our future results will depend, among other things, on our success in implementing our business strategy, as discussed in Item 1 under the heading “Business Strategy”. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy, or that the strategy will be successful in achieving acceptable levels of sales growth and profitability. Our customer acquisition and retention strategy may not be successful, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully leverage the Borders Rewards program, redesign it effectively or that such efforts will increase traffic into our stores or will increase sales, revenue or profitability. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our digital strategy, including the ability to obtain and sell eReaders that would be acceptable to our customers and to profitably sell such eReaders in our stores. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably sell eBooks though our partnership with Kobo. Any failure to implement our business strategy could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonality Our business is highly seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter. In 2009, 33.6% of our sales and 36.8% of our gross margin dollars were generated in the fourth quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter and less than satisfactory net sales for such period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. Other factors that could affect the holiday selling season include general economic and geopolitical conditions, overall consumer spending patterns, weather conditions and, with respect to our mall business, overall mall traffic. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our operations typically use cash during the first three quarters of the year and generate cash from operations in the fourth quarter. Potential gift card liabilities We issue gift cards that may be used to purchase products in our stores. We recognize income from unredeemed cards when we determine that the likelihood of the cards being redeemed is remote. Certain states include gift cards under their abandoned property laws, and require companies to remit to the state cash in an amount equal to all or a designated portion of the unredeemed balance on the gift cards after a specified period of time. We do not remit any amounts relating to unredeemed gift cards to states based upon our assessment of applicable laws. The analysis of the potential application of the abandoned property laws to our gift cards is complex, involving an analysis of constitutional, statutory provisions and factual issues. In the event that one or more states successfully challenges our position on the application of its abandoned property law to our gift cards, or if the estimates that we use in projecting the likelihood of the cards being redeemed prove to be inaccurate, our liabilities with respect to unredeemed gift cards may be materially higher than the amounts shown in our financial statements. If we are required to materially increase the estimated liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to unredeemed gift cards, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of the International segment are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, we are subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. Guarantees of Disposed Foreign Businesses We guarantee the leases of four stores that we previously owned in the U.K. and Ireland. These guarantees were required by certain of our landlords as conditions of the leases upon inception, and were unrelated to our disposition of operations in the U.K. and Ireland in 2007. The maximum potential liability under these lease guarantees is approximately $139.7 million. The leases provide for periodic rent reviews, which could increase our potential liability. One of the applicable lease guarantee agreements provides that the guarantee would automatically terminate if Borders U.K. Limited achieved a specified level of net assets, a provision which we believe has been met. The maximum potential liability for this location is $26.2 million. This limitation has not been considered in calculating the maximum exposures set forth above. In addition, in the event of a default under the primary leases, in certain circumstances a landlord may have an obligation to mitigate its loss or to act reasonably, which could further reduce our potential liability. At January 30, 2010, we have reserved $10.1 million based upon the likelihood that we will be required to perform under these guarantees. On December 22, 2009, Borders U.K. Limited ceased operations, a result of filing for administration on November 26, 2009. Previously, Borders U.K. Limited announced that it had agreed to sell the leasehold interests in five stores, including two of the leases guaranteed by the Company, to a fashion retailer. In addition, one of the leases was assigned to another retailer as part of the administration process and the Company’s guarantee was continued. These events have been considered in the determination of our reserves relating to the lease guarantees. Also under the terms of the sale agreement, we indemnified the buyer of our U.K. and Ireland operations from the tax liability, if any, imposed upon it as a result of the forgiveness of the portions of intercompany indebtedness owing from us. The maximum potential liability is approximately $8.7 million, and as of January 30, 2010 we have recorded a liability of approximately $3.5 million based upon the likelihood that we will be required to perform under the indemnification. We also guarantee four store leases relating to our former subsidiaries in Australia and New Zealand. Based upon current rents, taxes, common area maintenance charges and exchange rates, the maximum amount of potential future payments (undiscounted) is approximately $12.9 million. As of January 30, 2010, we have recorded a liability of approximately $0.8 million based upon the likelihood that we will be required to perform under the guarantees. Also under the terms of the sale agreement, we provided certain tax indemnifications to the purchasers, with the maximum amount of potential future payments (undiscounted) totaling approximately $6.7 million. We have recorded a tax liability of $2.0 million for this contingency as of January 30, 2010. There can be no assurance that our reserves relating to our disposed foreign businesses will be adequate should we be required to perform under any of the guarantees described above, and amounts beyond our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New York Stock Exchange Listing A failure by the Company to meet any of the following standards of the NYSE could result in a delisting of our shares from the NYSE: (1) Our average market capitalization falls below $50 million over a 30-day trading period and, at the same time, our stockholders’ equity is less than $50 million; (2) Our average 12 Table of Contents market capitalization falls below $15 million over a 30-day trading period; or (3) Our average closing price is less than $1.00 over a consecutive a 30-day trading period. Thus, in addition to meeting the $1.00 average trading price requirement, the Company also must satisfy the average market capitalization requirement, which is $15 million if we maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $50 million, but jumps to $50 million if we fall below that level. Our share price did fall below a closing price of $1.00 for six consecutive trading days during the period from January 26, 2010 through February 2, 2010. Although our stock traded below $1.00 for a period of time, we were not considered “below criteria” for the NYSE’s price criteria for common stock, as defined above. Subject to shareholder approval, we may implement a reverse split of our common stock, if required to enable us to meet the NYSE minimum share price standards. There can be no assurance that our shares will remain listed on the NYSE or that any reverse split that may be completed will increase our share price sufficiently to permit us to continue to satisfy the NYSE’s listing standards. In connection with our financing agreement with Pershing Square, we have issued warrants to Pershing Square exercisable for a total of 14.7 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share. These warrants are required to be settled for cash in certain circumstances, including the sale of the Company to a non-publicly-held entity or the de-listing of our common stock from trading on the NYSE. Holders of the warrants have the right to require us to redeem the warrants for an amount in cash equal to the fair value of the redeemed warrants, as determined by an independent financial expert. Any such payment may be subject to restrictions under our Credit Agreement. To the extent we are unable to pay the redemption price in cash when due, we will be obligated to pay interest on the unpaid redemption amount at a rate of 10% per annum. Accordingly, our inability to maintain the continued listing of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Potential for Uninsured Losses We are subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes, hurricanes or floods, as well as employee medical claims and workers compensation claims, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. Litigation and Other Claims We are subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims, including the matters described under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3. Information Technology Systems Risks The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs is essential to our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, our strategy is dependent on enhancing our existing merchandising systems, a process currently under way, as well as implementing the current Borders superstores in-store systems into the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail stores. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate, maintain, upgrade or enhance systems, or add new systems, in a timely and cost effective manner and may not be able to integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies with existing systems. These disruptions or impacts, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate our information systems effectively could disrupt our operations or subject us to liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the confidentiality of our data, as well as that of our employees, customers and other third parties, must be protected. We have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and prevent fraudulent payment transactions and other security breaches. There can be no 13 Table of Contents assurance that these systems and processes will be effective in preventing or mitigating such fraud, and such breaches could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Disruption of Vendor Relationships and/or Supply Chain. The products that we sell originate from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. During fiscal 2009, our six largest suppliers accounted for approximately 51% of merchandise purchased. While we believe that our relationships with vendors are strong, vendors may modify the terms of these relationships due to general economic conditions, our financial condition or otherwise. A significant unfavorable change in our relationships with key suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Reliance on Key Personnel We believe that our continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Michael J. Edwards, Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mark R. Bierley, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as well as certain of our other key officers of the Company and of our subsidiaries. The loss of the services of Mr. Edwards, Mr. Bierley or of other such key officers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our key officers. Other Risks We are also subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risks include, but are not limited to, higher than anticipated interest, occupancy, labor, merchandise, distribution and inventory shrinkage costs, unanticipated work stoppages, energy disruptions or shortages or higher than anticipated energy costs, asset impairments relating to underperforming stores or other unusual items, including any charges that may result from the implementation of our strategic plan, higher than anticipated costs associated with the closing of underperforming stores, and changes in accounting rules. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 