Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Competitive Environment The Company has experienced declines in net income in each of the last two years and such declines may continue, particularly during early fiscal 2007, which is expected to be a year of transformation. The decline is attributable to a number of factors, including increased competition from Internet retailers and a greater concentration on the sale of books and music by mass merchants and other non-bookstore retailers. In addition, with respect to music, the downloading of titles has significantly impacted sales of CDs sold by the Company. In addition, the overall consumer demand for products sold by the Company, particularly music, has either declined or not experienced significant growth in recent years. The retail book business is highly competitive. Competition within the retail book industry is fragmented, with Borders facing direct competition from other national superstore operators, as well as regional chains and superstores. In addition, Borders and Waldenbooks compete with each other, as well as other specialty retail stores that offer books in a particular area of specialty, independent single store operators, discount stores, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs and mass merchandisers. In the future, Borders and Waldenbooks may face additional competition from other categories of retailers entering the retail book market. The music and movie businesses are also highly competitive and Borders faces competition from large established music chains, established movie chains, as well as specialty retail stores, movie rental stores, discount stores, warehouse clubs and mass merchandisers. In addition, consumers receive television and mail order offers and have access to mail order clubs. The largest mail order clubs are affiliated with major manufacturers of pre-recorded music and may have advantageous marketing relationships with their affiliates. The Internet is a significant channel for retailing in all media categories that the Company carries. In particular, the retailing of books, music and movies over the Internet is highly competitive. In addition, the Company faces competition from companies engaged in the business of selling books, music and movies via electronic means, including the downloading of books, music and movie content. Planned Strategy for Domestic Borders Superstores The Company’s business strategy is dependent principally on its ability to grow comparable store sales and profitability in its domestic superstores. The Company is currently exploring changes to its superstore format, and is in the process of developing a concept store that incorporates these changes. This new concept store is expected to improve performance in the Company’s domestic superstore business. The concept store will incorporate many new components, including enhancement to certain categories within the store, as well as certain technology enhancements. These technology enhancements are principally tied to the Company’s efforts to launch its own e-commerce business. The Company also plans to leverage its recently launched Borders Rewards loyalty program to drive sales. There can be no assurance that the concept store changes, Borders Rewards or the e-commerce business will be successful in improving sales and profitability. Planned Strategy for the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail Business Waldenbooks’ results are highly dependent upon conditions in the mall retailing industry, including overall mall traffic. Mall traffic has been sluggish over the past several years and the Company expects it to remain so for the foreseeable future. In addition, increased competition from superstores, the Internet and mass merchants has adversely affected Waldenbooks’ sales and comparable store sales. As a result, the Company plans to aggressively right-size the Waldenbooks mall store base. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so at the correct rate, or that such efforts will be successful in improving sales or profitability of the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail business. The Company’s plans could result in additional asset impairments and store closure costs. Also, there can be no assurance that mall traffic will not decline further or that competition, or other factors, will not further adversely affect Waldenbooks’ sales. 9 Table of Contents Planned Strategy for International Business The Company’s operations in international markets have additional risks. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations, and to promote the Company’s brands internationally. Sales from the Company’s International segment may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. In addition, local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. The Company is currently exploring strategic alternatives, including possible sale, franchise opportunity or restructuring, for portions of the International businesses, including the U.K. superstores, Books etc. stores, as well as the Ireland, Australia and New Zealand superstores. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract interested third parties, or in lieu of that, operate its International businesses profitably. Planned Strategy for E-commerce Business The Company’s business strategy includes development of a proprietary e-commerce platform, which will include both in-store and online e-commerce components. The Company expects to launch its e-commerce Web site in early 2008. Prior to April 2001, the Company operated a proprietary e-commerce business and experienced significant losses. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to launch the planned e-commerce Web site on time or operate it profitably. Business Strategy The Company’s future results will depend, among other things, on its success in implementing its business strategy. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in implementing its business strategy, or that the strategy will be successful in sustaining acceptable levels of sales growth and profitability. Seasonality The Company’s business is highly seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter. In 2006, 36.8% of the Company’s sales and 43.7% of the Company’s gross profit were generated in the fourth quarter. The Company’s results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter; less than satisfactory net sales for such period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. Other factors that could affect the holiday selling season include general economic and geopolitical conditions, overall consumer spending patterns, weather conditions and, with respect to the Company’s mall business, overall mall traffic. The Company’s expansion program generally is weighted with store openings in the second half of the fiscal year. In the future, changes in the number and timing of store openings, or other factors, may result in different seasonality trends. Consumer Spending Patterns Sales of books, music and movies have historically been dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond the control of the Company. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books, music and movies, or in bestseller book, music and movie buying could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and its ability to fund its growth strategy. Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of the International segment are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ 10 Table of Contents materially from expectations. In addition, the Company is subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. Potential for Uninsured Losses The Company is subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes, hurricanes or floods, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. Litigation and Other Claims The Company is subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims, including the matters described under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3. Information Technology Systems Risk The capacity, reliability and security of the Company’s information technology hardware and software infrastructure and its ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs is essential to the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy. In addition, the Company’s strategy is dependent on enhancing its existing merchandising systems, a process currently under way. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to effectively maintain, upgrade or enhance systems, or add new systems, in a timely and cost effective manner and may not be able to integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies with existing systems. These disruptions or impacts, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy and on its financial condition and results of operations. Availability of Capital Resources The Company’s success is dependent on the availability of adequate capital to fund the company’s operations and to carry out its strategic plans. There can be no assurance that the Company will have adequate access to capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy and on its financial condition and results of operations. Distribution and Logistics Network The Company has undertaken a multi-year initiative to enhance the efficiency of its distribution and logistics network. A component of this strategy was the relocation of the Company’s Harrisburg, Pennsylvania distribution facility to a new, 600,000 square foot, state-of-the-art facility near Carlisle, Pennsylvania in the first quarter of 2006. In addition, some of the operations of the Company’s Indiana facility, and those of a facility in Tennessee, were transferred to other facilities in 2006. The remainder of the operations of the Indiana facility, as well as certain operations of the Tennessee facility are planned to be transferred to the new facility in 2007. There can be no assurances that the Company will successfully transfer the operations of these facilities. These activities, if not successfully executed, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on Key Personnel Management believes that the Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Mr. George L. Jones, President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as certain other key officers of the Company and each of its subsidiaries. The loss of the services of Mr. Jones or of other such key officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of its key officers. 11 Table of Contents Other Risks The Company is also subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risks include, but are not limited to, higher than anticipated interest, occupancy, labor, merchandise, distribution and inventory shrinkage costs, unanticipated work stoppages, energy disruptions or shortages or higher than anticipated energy costs, asset impairments relating to underperforming stores or other unusual items, including any charges that may result from the Company’s implementation of its strategic plan, higher than anticipated costs associated with the closing of underperforming stores, the continued availability of adequate capital to fund the Company’s operations, the stability and capacity of the Company’s information systems, unanticipated costs or problems relating to the information technology systems required for the operations of the Company, and changes in accounting rules. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 