Item 1A: Risk Factors An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that the Company has identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing the Company. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, including global economic events, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, terrorism and/or other international conflicts, natural disasters or other disruptions of unexpected economic/business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impact our business operations, financial results and liquidity. Many of the markets we serve are highly competitive, which could limit the volume of products that we sell and reduce our operating margins. Our products are sold in a competitive marketplace which is experiencing increased trade concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we 9 are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, have greater bargaining strength than we do. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts, allowances or slotting fees which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. We believe that significant points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, product development, conformity, to customer specifications, reliability and timeliness of delivery, customer service and effectiveness of distribution. Maintaining and improving our competitive position requires continued investment by us in manufacturing, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support of our distribution networks. The Company may have insufficient resources in the future to continue to make such investments and, even if we make such investments, we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products and other conditions. In addition, private label brands sold by retail trade chains, which are typically sold at lower prices, are a source of competition for some of our product lines. Consumers may reduce discretionary purchases of our products as a result of a general economic downturn or other external factors. We believe that consumer spending on specific hair care and fragrance products may be influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. As a result, we may experience periods of declining sales during economic downturns. In addition, a general economic downturn may result in reduced traffic in our customers' stores which may, in turn, result in reduced net sales to our customers. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, its profitability or operating cash flows. Increases in our raw material or component costs or difficulties within our supplier base could negatively affect our profitability. Generally, our raw materials and component requirements are obtainable from various sources and in desired quantities. While we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials and components, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and, perhaps, periodic delays in the delivery of certain raw materials and components. Due to market conditions in the petroleum industry, the Company continues to experience price increases in both raw material and component prices as well as an increase in overall freight costs. While the rise in material costs may continue to impact our financial results, we have been able to offset most of these cost increases through price recovery from our customers and cost reductions. Our ability to continue to pass along cost increases on a going forward basis is not guaranteed. In addition, a failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with raw materials or component parts on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on us. Historically, the Company has grown primarily through acquisitions. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates and successfully integrate acquired operations, we may be adversely affected. 10 One of our principal growth strategies in the past has been to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities. A substantial portion of our historical growth has been from acquisitions. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be identified or acquired in the future, financing may be unavailable on satisfactory terms or we may be unable to accomplish our strategic objectives in effecting a particular acquisition. We may encounter various risks in acquiring other companies or brands, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired line of business into our operations, diversion of management's attention and unanticipated problems, some or all of which could materially and/or adversely affect our business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be unable to successfully implement growth strategies. Our ability to realize growth opportunities, apart from acquisitions, may be limited. The Company has identified growth opportunities involving new product development, cross-selling, product bundling, cost reduction measures and organic growth opportunities. However, our business operates in relatively stable marketplaces and it may be difficult to successfully pursue these strategies and realize material benefits therefrom. Even if the Company is successful, other risks attendant to our businesses and the economy generally may substantially or entirely eliminate the benefits. While we have been successful with some of these strategies in the past, our growth has principally come through acquisitions. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. While the Company believes that our trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property have significant value, the market for our products depends to a degree upon the value associated with our trademarks and trade names. Competitors may infringe on our trademarks or successfully avoid them through design innovation. Although most of our brand names are registered in the United States and certain foreign countries, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. Additionally, an adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license our intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or using certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, reengineer, or re-brand certain products or packaging. Further, we may incur costs in terms of legal fees and expenses, whether or not the claim is valid, to respond to intellectual property infringement claims. These or other liabilities or claims may increase or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. The Company has a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets, and their future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 The Company's goodwill and intangible assets were $12,378,000 at December 31, 2005, and represented approximately 38% of total assets. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company incurred an impairment loss of $2,145,000 in connection with the valuation of intangible assets. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we lose key personnel, or fail to attract and retain qualified experienced personnel, we may be unable achieve the Company's continuing objectives. We believe that the future success of the Company depends upon the continued contributions of our highly qualified management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain those personnel. These individuals have developed strong relationships with customers and suppliers. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire the additional personnel necessary for our continued growth. The Company's future growth and success depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified managerial personnel. The impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require the Company to implement significant changes to internal control procedures and will force the Company to incur substantial implementation and recurring costs. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB"), adopted rules for purposes of implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX 404"), which included revised definitions of material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting. The PCAOB defined a material weakness as "a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected." The new rules describe certain circumstances as being both significant deficiencies and strong indicators that material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting exist. Management of the Company has identified deficiencies which, taken in the aggregate, amount to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting related to the fact that, as a small public company, we have an insufficient number of personnel with clearly delineated and fully documented responsibilities and with the appropriate level of accounting expertise and we have insufficient documented procedures to identify and prepare a conclusion on matters involving material accounting issues and to independently review conclusions as to the application of generally accepted accounting principles. The lack of a sufficient number of accounting personnel is not considered appropriate for an internal control structure designed for external reporting purposes. The principal factors management considered in determining whether a material weakness existed in this regard was based upon management's evaluation and advice from our independent registered public accounting firm. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. 12 Pursuant to SOX 404, our management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on management's assessment of and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The effective implementation date of SOX 404 has been postponed for non-accelerated filers such as The Stephan Co. until the first year ending on or after July 15, 2007. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to complete the documentation of our internal control system and financial processes, information systems, assessment of their design, remediation of control deficiencies identified in these efforts and management testing of the design and operation of internal control. Management has estimated that the costs associated with the implementation of SOX 404 will be material and may very well have an adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 