Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Trading in shares of our common stock during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Currently outstanding shares of our common stock could be cancelled and extinguished upon confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan by the Bankruptcy Court, in which case the shares would have no value. It is uncertain at this stage of the Chapter 11 Cases if any confirmed Chapter 11 plan would allow for distributions with respect to our currently outstanding shares of common stock. We believe that it is more likely that outstanding shares of our common stock would be cancelled and extinguished upon confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan by the Bankruptcy Court. In this event, the holders of our common stock would not be entitled to receive or retain any cash, securities or other property on account of their cancelled shares of common stock. As a result, our currently outstanding common stock would have no value. Trading prices for our common stock may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by holders in the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, we urge extreme caution with respect to existing and future investments in our common stock. Our common stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange and is quoted only on the over-the-counter trading market, which is likely to negatively affect trading liquidity and our stock price. On February 16, 2011, the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) suspended trading in our common stock following our announcement of the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases. On March 9, 2011, the NYSE formally notified the Securities and Exchange Commission of the delisting of our common stock. Trading prices for our common stock may be quoted in the over-the-counter trading market. The over-the-counter trading market is not a formal securities exchange and quotation of our common stock is likely to result in a significantly less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock. The lack of a liquid market could further depress the trading price of our common stock and also have a long-term adverse effect on our ability to raise equity capital. In addition, securities that trade in the over-the-counter market are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule.” In connection with the delisting of our common stock, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence in our Company by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our common stock. We cannot predict whether or when we may be able to relist our common stock on the NYSE or another national securities exchange. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the requirements of the DIP Credit Agreement or that the lending commitments under the DIP Credit Agreement will not be terminated by our lenders. In addition to standard financing covenants and events of default, the DIP Credit Agreement provides for events of default specific to the Chapter 11 Cases, including, among others, defaults arising from our failure to adhere to the budget agreed upon with our lenders in connection with the DIP Credit Agreement, our failure to implement our store reduction plan or our failure to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval for a Chapter 11 plan acceptable to our lenders. The occurrence of an event of default under the DIP Credit Agreement would give our lenders the right to terminate their lending commitments and exercise other remedies available to them under the DIP Credit Agreement. If the DIP Credit Agreement is terminated or our access to funding is restricted or terminated, it is likely that we would not have sufficient cash availability to meet our operating needs or satisfy our obligations as they become due. In this event, we would be required to seek a sale of all or a portion of our assets pursuant to Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or to convert the Chapter 11 Cases into liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. 13 Index There can be no assurance that our lenders under the DIP Credit Agreement or the Bankruptcy Court will approve the Chapter 11 plan proposed by the Company. In order for us to emerge successfully from the Chapter 11 Cases, we must obtain approval from the Bankruptcy Court and our creditors for a Chapter 11 plan, which will enable us to transition from the Chapter 11 Cases into ordinary course operations outside of bankruptcy. In connection with the Chapter 11 plan, we must also obtain a new credit facility, or “exit financing.” There can be no assurance that our lenders under the DIP Credit Agreement or the Bankruptcy Court will approve the Chapter 11 plan proposed by the Company. There can also be no assurance that exit financing will be available to us at all or upon acceptable terms. Our failure to propose a Chapter 11 plan acceptable to our lenders or the Bankruptcy Court would give our lenders the right to terminate their lending commitments and exercise other remedies available to them under the DIP Credit Agreement. Further, we may seek a sale of all or a portion of our assets pursuant to either Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or a Chapter 11 plan or to convert the Chapter 11 Cases into a liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our ability to present a Chapter 11 plan that our lenders and the Bankruptcy Court will approve depends in part on our ability to maintain acceptable trade credit levels and terms with our vendors. The products that we sell originate from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. During fiscal 2010, our six largest suppliers accounted for approximately 60% of merchandise purchased. We have historically relied on trade credit provided by book publishers and other vendors to provide a substantial portion of the liquidity required to operate our business. Following commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, a majority of our top publishers and multimedia vendors have agreed to ship merchandise to us only if we prepay for the purchased merchandise. The majority of our mid-size and smaller trade suppliers have agreed to provide payment terms that are less favorable to us than the terms made available to us prior to our bankruptcy filing. A minority of smaller vendors have resumed our pre-bankruptcy payment terms. Our vendors are not obligated to continue to extend trade credit to us and there can be no assurance that we will continue to have access in the future to sufficient levels of trade credit on acceptable terms. If we do not have access to sufficient trade credit, it is likely that we will not be able to successfully complete our reorganization and could be forced to seek a sale of our assets under Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or a liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our ability to present a Chapter 11 plan that our lenders and the Bankruptcy Court will approve also depends in part on our ability to successfully implement our store reduction plan. In connection with entering into the DIP Credit Agreement, we agreed with our lenders on a store reduction plan that requires us to conduct an orderly closing of 226 underperforming superstores. There can be no assurance that the store closures contemplated by our store reduction plan will be sufficient to permit us to return to profitability or that we will not be required to close additional stores in order to permit us to emerge from Chapter 11. The implementation of our store reduction plan may also adversely affect customer perception of the Borders brand or further increase the challenges we face from competitors. Our failure to complete our store reduction plan within the time periods provided in the DIP Credit Agreement could result in the occurrence of an event of default under the DIP Credit Agreement, which would give our lenders the right to terminate their lending commitments and exercise other remedies available to them under the DIP Credit Agreement. In this event, we would be required to seek a sale of all or a portion of our assets pursuant to either Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or a Chapter 11 plan or to convert the Chapter 11 Cases into a liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our liquidity position imposes significant risks to our operations. The DIP Credit Agreement provides for a revolving loan facility that is intended to be used for the financing of our ordinary working capital and general corporate needs, including certain fees and expenses of retained professionals, and for payment of certain pre-petition expenses. There can be no assurance that the amount of cash from operations, together with available trade credit extended by our vendors and amounts available under the DIP Credit Agreement, will be sufficient to fund our operations. In the event that cash flows, trade credit and borrowings under the DIP Credit Agreement are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available, would be available on acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse affect on our operations and ability to continue as a going concern. Operating under Chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue our strategic and operational initiatives. Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Additionally, the terms of the DIP Credit Agreement limit our ability to undertake certain business initiatives. These limitations include, among other things, our ability to: 14 Index · sell assets outside the normal course of business; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; · grant liens; and · finance our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. The requirements of the Chapter 11 Cases have consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of our management’s time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operation of our business. This diversion of attention may materially adversely affect the conduct of our business and our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. We may experience increased levels of employee attrition. We have experienced significant attrition among our senior management team and other key employees. During the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases, we may experience increased levels of employee attrition, and our employees are expected to face considerable distraction and uncertainty. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale, at the corporate, distribution and store levels, could have a materially adverse affect on our ability to meet the expectations of our customer and other business partners, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to engage, motivate and retain key employees or take other measures intended to motivate and incent key employees to remain with us through the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is limited during the Chapter 11 Cases by restrictions on implementation of retention programs. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, which would be likely to have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our capital structure will likely be significantly altered under any Chapter 11 plan confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Under fresh-start reporting rules that may apply to us upon the effective date of a Chapter 11 plan, our assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair value and our accumulated deficit would be restated to zero. Accordingly, if fresh-start reporting rules apply, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from Chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases and the development of a Chapter 11 plan, it is also possible that additional restructuring and related charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. If a Chapter 11 plan is approved and implemented, changes in our ownership could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards upon our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. Certain tax attributes, such as net operating loss carry-forwards, may be limited or lost in the event we experience an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. If a change of ownership occurs as a result of the implementation of a Chapter 11 plan, upon our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases significant tax benefits otherwise available to us could be limited or eliminated. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy. Our future results will depend, among other things, on our success in implementing our business strategy, as discussed in Item 1 under the heading “Business Strategy.” There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy, or that the strategy will be successful in achieving acceptable levels of sales and profitability. Our customer acquisition and retention strategy may not be successful, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully leverage the Borders Rewards program or that such efforts will increase traffic into our stores or will increase sales, revenue or profitability. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our digital strategy, including the ability to obtain and sell eReaders that would be acceptable to our customers and to profitably sell these eReaders in our stores. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably sell eBooks though our partnership with Kobo. Any failure to implement our business strategy could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Index Our revenues are substantially dependent on discretionary consumer spending, the level of consumer spending via Internet retailers and on eBooks, and the strength of new product releases. Sales of books, music and movies have historically been dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. We believe that 2011 will be a challenging year due to continued uncertainty in the economic environment. We also believe that the increase in consumer spending via Internet retailers and on eBooks may significantly affect our ability to generate sales in our stores. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books, music and movies, or a significant shift to the purchase of eBooks from physical books, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to fund our business strategy. Economic conditions may result in reductions in discretionary consumer spending, which are likely to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions. Worldwide economic conditions and consumer spending have deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for some time. Some of the factors that are having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, reductions in disposable income as a result of financial market declines over the past several years and declines in residential real estate values, credit availability and consumer confidence. Competition within the retail book industry is intense and we expect to continue to experience substantial competition from Internet and other non-bookstore retailers as well as from the increasing popularity of eBooks. We have experienced operating losses over the last several years and such losses may continue. We believe that the losses are attributable to a number of factors, including increased competition from Internet retailers and a greater concentration on the sale of books and music by mass merchants and other non-bookstore retailers. In addition, with respect to music and movies, the downloading of titles has significantly impacted our sale of CDs and DVDs. The increasing popularity of eBooks has the potential to significantly impact our sales of physical books. Also, the overall consumer demand for products that we sell, particularly music and movies, has either declined or not experienced significant growth in recent years. The retail book business is highly competitive. Competition within the retail book industry is fragmented, with Borders facing competition from the Internet and other superstore operators. In addition, Borders and Waldenbooks compete with other specialty retail stores that offer books in a particular area of specialty, independent single store operators, discount stores, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs, mass merchandisers and other non-bookstore retailers. In the future, Borders and Waldenbooks may face additional competition from other categories of Internet and brick and mortar retailers entering the retail book market. Our business is seasonal and our results of operations depend significantly on the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. Our business is seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter. In 2010, 32.6% of our sales dollars were generated in the fourth quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. Less than satisfactory net sales for this period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. Other factors that could affect the holiday selling season include general economic and geopolitical conditions, overall consumer spending patterns, weather conditions and, with respect to our mall business, overall mall traffic. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our operations typically use cash during the first three quarters of the year and generate cash from operations in the fourth quarter. We are subject to potential liabilities in connection with our gift card program. We issue gift cards that may be used to purchase products in our stores. We recognize income from unredeemed cards when we determine that the likelihood of the cards being redeemed is remote. Certain states include gift cards under their abandoned property laws, and require companies to remit to the state cash in an amount equal to all or a designated portion of the unredeemed balance on the gift cards after a specified period of time. We do not remit any amounts relating to unredeemed gift cards to states based upon our assessment of applicable laws. The analysis of the potential application of the abandoned property laws to our gift cards is complex, involving an analysis of constitutional and statutory provisions and factual issues. In the event that one or more states successfully challenges our position on the application of its abandoned property law to our gift cards, or if the estimates that we use in projecting the likelihood of the cards being redeemed prove to be inaccurate, our cash balances and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected and our liabilities with respect to unredeemed gift cards may be materially higher than the amounts shown in our financial statements. If we are required to materially increase the estimated liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to unredeemed gift cards, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Index We may experience uninsured losses in connection with our business. We are subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes, hurricanes or floods, as well as employee medical claims and workers compensation claims, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. We are subject to possible losses in connection with certain legal proceedings and claims. We are subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims, including the matters described under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3. We are substantially dependant on our information technology systems, which present certain risks which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs is essential to our ability to execute our business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate, maintain, upgrade or enhance systems, or add new systems, in a timely and cost effective manner and may not be able to integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies with existing systems. These disruptions or impacts, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate our information systems effectively could disrupt our operations or subject us to liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the confidentiality of our data, as well as that of our employees, customers and other third parties, must be protected. We have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and prevent fraudulent payment transactions and other security breaches. There can be no assurance that these systems and processes will be effective in preventing or mitigating such fraud, and such breaches could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition to the foregoing risks and uncertainties, we are also subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risks include, but are not limited to, higher than anticipated interest, occupancy, labor, merchandise, distribution and inventory shrinkage costs, unanticipated work stoppages, energy disruptions or shortages or higher than anticipated energy costs, asset impairments relating to underperforming stores or other unusual items, including any charges that may result from the implementation of our strategic plan, higher than anticipated costs associated with the closing of underperforming stores, and changes in accounting rules. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 