Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Consumer Spending Patterns Sales of books, music and movies have historically been dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. We believe that 2009 will be a challenging year due to continued uncertainty in the economic environment. We also believe that the increase in consumer spending via Internet retailers may significantly affect our ability to generate sales in our stores. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books, music and movies, or in bestseller book, music and movie buying could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to fund our growth strategy. Economic Conditions Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions and the current global financial crisis. Worldwide economic conditions and consumer spending have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for some time. Some of the factors that are having an impact on discretionary consumer 8 Table of Contents spending include increased unemployment, reductions in disposable income as a result of recent severe market declines and declines in residential real estate values, credit availability and consumer confidence. Competitive Environment We have experienced declines in operating income over the last three years and such declines may continue. We believe that the decline is attributable to a number of factors, including increased competition from Internet retailers and a greater concentration on the sale of books and music by mass merchants and other non-bookstore retailers. In addition, with respect to music and movies, the downloading of titles has significantly impacted our sale of CDs and DVDs. Also, the overall consumer demand for products that we sell, particularly music and movies, has either declined or not experienced significant growth in recent years. The retail book business is highly competitive. Competition within the retail book industry is fragmented, with Borders facing competition from the Internet and other superstore operators. In addition, Borders and Waldenbooks compete with other specialty retail stores that offer books in a particular area of specialty, independent single store operators, discount stores, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs, mass merchandisers and other non-bookstore retailers. In the future, Borders and Waldenbooks may face additional competition from other categories of Internet and brick and mortar retailers entering the retail book market. The music and movie businesses are also highly competitive and Borders faces competition from large established music chains, established movie chains, as well as specialty retail stores, movie rental stores, discount stores, warehouse clubs and mass merchandisers. In addition, consumers receive television and mail order offers and have access to mail order clubs. The largest mail order clubs are affiliated with major manufacturers of pre-recorded music and may have advantageous marketing relationships with their affiliates. The Internet is a significant channel for retailing in all media categories that we carry. In particular, the retailing of books, music and movies over the Internet is highly competitive. In addition, we face competition from companies engaged in the business of selling books, music and movies via electronic means, including the downloading of books, music and movie content. Availability of Capital Resources Our success is dependent on the availability of adequate capital to fund our operations and to carry out our strategic plans. Key drivers of our cash flows are sales, expense management, capital spending and our inventory turn improvement initiative. There can be no assurance that we will have adequate access to capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and our financial condition and results of operations. We have a Multicurrency Revolving Credit Agreement, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”), which expires in July 2011. The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings of up to $1,125.0 million limited to and secured by eligible inventory and accounts receivable and related assets. On April 9, 2008, we completed a financing agreement with investment funds managed by Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. (“Pershing Square”), which was most recently amended on March 30, 2009. Under the terms of the most recent amendment, Pershing Square has extended the maturity date of the term loan of $42.5 million at a fixed interest rate of 9.8% to April 1, 2010. We plan to operate our business and execute our strategic initiatives principally with funds generated from operations, financing through the Credit Agreement, credit provided by our vendors and other sources of new financing as deemed necessary and available. As of the fourth quarter of 2008, however, we have determined that the debt and equity capital markets are currently unavailable to us based on current market conditions. In addition, our liquidity is impacted by a number of factors, including our sales levels, the amount of credit that our vendors extend to us and our borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement. We rely upon vendor credit to finance approximately 43% of our inventory (calculated as 9 Table of Contents trade accounts payable divided by merchandise inventories). We are working closely with vendors to optimize inventory levels to improve our performance and to maintain acceptable levels of payables with our vendors. In addition, the lenders under the Credit Agreement have the right to periodically obtain third party valuations of the liquidation value of our inventory, and the lowering of the liquidation value of our inventory reduces the amount that we are able to borrow under the Credit Agreement. Based on current internal sales projections, current vendor payable support and borrowing capacity, as well as other initiatives to maximize cash flow, we believe that we will have adequate capital to fund our operations during fiscal 2009. However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our internal sales projections or that we will be able to maintain our current vendor payable support or borrowing capacity, and any failure to do so could result in us having insufficient funds for our operations. Planned Strategy for Borders Superstores We are focused on improving key retailing practices at our superstores in order to become the bookstore for the serious reader. This includes increasing effectiveness of merchandise presentation, improving assortment planning, expense reduction initiatives, replenishment and supply chain effectiveness, and ensuring consistency of execution across the chain. A key element of this strategy is the enhancement of certain key categories, which will help to distinguish our domestic superstores from competitors. These categories include children’s, wellness, cooking, educational materials, a Seattle’s Best Coffee cafes, and Paperchase gifts and stationery shops, which continue to be drivers of both sales and increased profitability for their categories. To address declining sales in the music category, as well as increasing space available for improved merchandise presentation and expansion of higher margin categories, we have reduced music inventories and reallocated floor space in our stores. In general, this has resulted in greater space being allocated to books and gifts and stationery. We plan to continue to reduce the space allocated to music during 2009, as well as movie inventory, and continue to increase the space devoted to an expanded assortment of children’s books and other growth categories within books, gifts and stationery and non-book products such as teaching materials. There can be no assurance that these changes will be successful in improving sales and profitability. As a result of our focus on existing stores and the need to preserve liquidity, we have effectively curtailed our new store program for fiscal 2009. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of existing stores, and additional store closures could occur in cases where our store profitability goals are not met. Closures of underperforming Borders Superstores may result in asset impairment charges and store closure costs. Planned Strategy for the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail Business The Waldenbooks Specialty Retail segment has generally experienced negative comparable store sales percentages for the past several years, primarily due to an overall decrease in mall traffic, sluggish bestseller sales and increased competition from all channels. Although we expect that comparable store sales percentages will continue to decrease over the next few years, we believe that the Company has the potential to operate mall-based stores profitably. An important element of this strategy is the signing of short-term lease agreements for desirable locations, which enables us to negotiate rents that are responsive to the then-current sales environment. We will, however, continue to close stores that do not meet our profitability goals, a process which could result in additional future asset impairments and store closure costs. We have recently increased the store profitability targets required for store lease renewals, which could also lead to increased numbers of asset impairments and store closures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to right-size the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail chain at the correct rate, or that such efforts will be successful in improving profitability of the Waldenbooks Specialty Retail business. These measures are expected to improve profitability and free cash flow in the long term. We will retain stable mall-based locations that meet acceptable profit and return on investment objectives and in those stores, change product assortment and formats to drive sales and profitability. There can be no assurance 10 Table of Contents that mall traffic will not decline further or that competition, or other factors, will not further adversely affect Waldenbooks’ sales. Planned Strategy for International Business We have suspended growth and investment in our International businesses. We sold our bookstore operations in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, the U.K., and Ireland, in order to focus on our domestic business. We believe that the Borders brand has global potential, and that future International growth, if pursued, will most profitably utilize a franchise business model, which we have applied successfully in Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or profitable in applying the franchise business model. Planned Strategy for E-commerce Business Our business strategy includes the operation of a proprietary e-commerce platform, which includes both in-store and online e-commerce components. We launched our e-commerce Web site during May 2008. Prior to April 2001 and our agreement with Amazon, we operated a proprietary e-commerce business and experienced significant losses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our current proprietary e-commerce platform reliably or profitably. Business Strategy Our future results will depend, among other things, on our success in implementing our business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy, or that the strategy will be successful in sustaining acceptable levels of sales growth and profitability. Seasonality Our business is highly seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter. In 2008, 33.4% of our sales and 37.1% of our gross profit were generated in the fourth quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter and less than satisfactory net sales for such period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. Other factors that could affect the holiday selling season include general economic and geopolitical conditions, overall consumer spending patterns, weather conditions and, with respect to our mall business, overall mall traffic. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our operations typically use cash during the first three quarters of the year and generate cash from operations in the fourth quarter. Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of the International segment are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, we are subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. Guarantees of Disposed Foreign Businesses We guarantee four store leases relating to our former subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Based upon current rents, taxes, common area maintenance charges and exchange rates, the maximum amount of potential future payments (undiscounted) is approximately $134.0 million. The leases provide for periodic rent reviews, which could increase our potential liability. At January 31, 2009, we have reserved $9.0 million based upon the likelihood that we will be required to perform under these guarantees. 11 Table of Contents Also under the terms of the sale agreement, we indemnified the buyer of our U.K. and Ireland operations from the tax liability, if any, imposed upon it as a result of the forgiveness of the portions of intercompany indebtedness owing from the Company. The maximum potential liability is approximately $7.7 million, and we have recorded a tax liability of approximately $3.1 million based upon the likelihood that we will be required to perform under the indemnification. We also guarantee four store leases relating to our former subsidiaries in Australia and New Zealand. Based upon current rents, taxes, common area maintenance charges and exchange rates, the maximum amount of potential future payments (undiscounted) is approximately $11.2 million. We have recorded a contingent liability of approximately $0.6 million based upon the likelihood that we will be required to perform under the guarantees. Also under the terms of the sale agreement, we provided certain tax indemnifications to the purchasers, with the maximum amount of potential future payments (undiscounted) totaling approximately $4.9 million. We have recorded a tax liability of $1.4 million for this contingency. New York Stock Exchange Listing On December 31, 2008, we received a notice from the NYSE that we did not satisfy one of the NYSE’s standards for continued listing applicable to our common stock. The NYSE noted specifically that we were “below criteria” for the NYSE’s price criteria for common stock because the average closing price of our common stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-trading-day period. The NYSE’s price criteria standard requires that any listed security trade at a minimum average closing share price of $1.00 during any consecutive 30-trading-day period. Under the NYSE’s rules, in order to cure the deficiency for this continued listing standard, we must bring our share price and average share price back above $1.00 by six months following receipt of the non-compliance notice. The NYSE also has advised us that our current absolute market capitalization was approaching the minimum standard of total market capitalization of $25 million over a 30 trading-day period, which is a minimum threshold standard that does not allow for any cure period (this standard was subsequently temporarily lowered to $15 million). In February 2009, the NYSE suspended the minimum share price and market capitalization requirements until June 30, 2009. Based on this suspension, the cure period for our failure to comply with the minimum price requirement has been extended until approximately October of 2009. Subject to shareholder approval, we may implement a reverse split of our common stock, if required to enable us to meet the NYSE minimum share price standards. There can be no assurance that our shares will remain listed on the NYSE or any reverse split that may be completed will increase our share price sufficiently to permit us to continue to satisfy the NYSE’s listing standards. In connection with our financing agreement with Pershing Square, we have issued warrants to Pershing Square exercisable for a total of 14.7 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share. Under the terms of the warrants, if our common stock ceases to be listed on the NYSE or one of the trading markets of the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, holders of the warrants have the right to require us to redeem the warrants for an amount in cash equal to the fair value of the redeemed warrants, as determined by an independent financial expert. To the extent we are unable to pay the redemption price in cash when due, we will be obligated to pay interest on the unpaid redemption amount at a rate of 10% per annum. Accordingly, our inability to maintain the continued listing of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Potential for Uninsured Losses We are subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes, hurricanes or floods, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. Litigation and Other Claims We are subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims, including the matters described under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3. 12 Table of Contents Information Technology Systems Risks The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs is essential to our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, our strategy is dependent on enhancing our existing merchandising systems, a process currently under way. There can be no assurances that we will be able to effectively maintain, upgrade or enhance systems, or add new systems, in a timely and cost effective manner and may not be able to integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies with existing systems. These disruptions or impacts, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate our information systems effectively could disrupt our operations or subject us to liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the confidentiality of our data, as well as that of our employees, customers and other third parties, must be protected. We have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and prevent fraudulent payment transactions and other security breaches. There can be no assurance that these systems and processes will be effective in preventing or mitigating such fraud, and such breaches could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on Key Personnel We believe that our continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Ron Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as certain of our other key officers of the Company and of our subsidiaries. The loss of the services of Mr. Marshall or of other such key officers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our key officers. Other Risks We are also subject to numerous other risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risks include, but are not limited to, higher than anticipated interest, occupancy, labor, merchandise, distribution and inventory shrinkage costs, unanticipated work stoppages, energy disruptions or shortages or higher than anticipated energy costs, asset impairments relating to underperforming stores or other unusual items, including any charges that may result from the implementation of our strategic plan, higher than anticipated costs associated with the closing of underperforming stores, the continued availability of adequate capital to fund our operations, the stability and capacity of our information systems, unanticipated costs or problems relating to the information technology systems required for our operations, and changes in accounting rules. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 