Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Expansion Strategy The Company’s growth strategy is dependent principally on its ability to open new superstores and operate them profitably. The Company has been engaged in an aggressive expansion and remodel program, pursuant to which it has opened 19 domestic superstores and completed major remodels of 33 existing domestic superstores in 2004. In 2005, the Company expects to open 15 to 20 domestic superstores and complete major remodels of approximately 80 to 100 existing domestic superstores. New stores opened in 2005 and the majority of remodeled stores will feature cafes offering Seattle’s Best Coffee and gifts and stationery by Paperchase. The Company has also opened five International superstores in 2004, and expects to open 10 to 12 International superstores in 2005, primarily in the United Kingdom and Australia, including the first Borders franchise store, which will open in Malaysia. In addition, the Company plans to selectively update and convert 75 to 100 Waldenbooks stores to Borders Express, an extension of a market test that began in 2004 with the conversion of 37 existing Waldenbooks stores. In general, the rate of the Company’s expansion depends, among other things, on general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the availability of qualified management personnel and the Company’s ability to manage the operational aspects of its growth. It also depends upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in a large part upon cash flow generated by Borders and Waldenbooks. The Company’s expansion into international markets has additional risks. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations, and to promote the Company’s brands internationally. Sales from the Company’s International segment may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. The Company is also subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, restrictive governmental policies and laws (such as trade protection measures, limitations on the repatriation of funds, nationalization and consumer protection laws and restrictions on pricing or discounts), difficulty in developing and simultaneously managing a larger number of unique foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences, tax and other laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions and geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. In addition, local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. Also, the Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit the Company’s growth internationally. The Company’s future results will depend, among other things, on its success in implementing its expansion strategy. If stores are opened more slowly than expected, sales at new stores reach targeted levels more slowly than expected (or fail to reach targeted levels) or related overhead costs increase in excess of expected levels, the Company’s ability to successfully implement its expansion strategy would be adversely affected. In addition, the Company expects to open new superstores in certain markets in which it is already operating superstores, which could adversely affect sales at those existing stores. 8 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company will sustain its accelerated rate of superstore growth or that it will achieve and sustain acceptable levels of profitability, particularly as other leading national and regional book, music and movie store chains develop and open superstores. Waldenbooks Waldenbooks’ results are highly dependent upon conditions in the mall retailing industry, including overall mall traffic. Mall traffic has been sluggish over the past several years and the Company expects it to remain sluggish for the foreseeable future. In addition, increased competition from superstores has adversely affected Waldenbooks’ sales and comparable store sales. There can be no assurance that mall traffic will not decline further or that superstore competition, or other factors, will not further adversely affect Waldenbooks’ sales. Seasonality The Company’s business is highly seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter. During 2004, 35.3% of the Company’s sales and 90.3% of the Company’s operating income were generated in the fourth quarter. The Company’s results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter; less than satisfactory net sales for such period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. The Company’s expansion program generally is weighted with store openings in the second half of the fiscal year. In the future, changes in the number and timing of store openings, or other factors, may result in different seasonality trends. Competition The retail book business is highly competitive. Competition within the retail book industry is fragmented, with Borders facing direct competition from other national superstore operators, as well as regional chains and superstores. In addition, Borders and Waldenbooks compete with each other, as well as other specialty retail stores that offer books in a particular area of specialty, independent single store operators, discount stores, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs and mass merchandisers. In the future, Borders and Waldenbooks may face additional competition from other categories of retailers entering the retail book market. The music and movie businesses are also highly competitive and Borders faces competition from large established music chains, established movie chains, as well as specialty retail stores, movie rental stores, discount stores, warehouse clubs and mass merchandisers. In addition, consumers receive television and mail order offers and have access to mail order clubs. The largest mail order clubs are affiliated with major manufacturers of pre-recorded music and may have advantageous marketing relationships with their affiliates. The Internet has emerged as a significant channel for retailing in all media categories that the Company carries. In particular, the retailing of books, music and movies over the Internet is highly competitive. In addition, the Company faces competition from companies engaged in the business of selling books, music and movies via electronic means, including the downloading of books, music and movie content. Consumer Spending Patterns Sales of books, music and movies have historically been dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond the control of the Company. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books, music and movies, or in bestseller book, music and movie buying could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and its ability to fund its expansion strategy. Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of the International segment are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon 9 Table of Contents consolidation. As exchange rates vary, sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, the Company is subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. Potential for Uninsured Losses and/or Claims The Company is subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes, or floods, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. The Company also is subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims. Changes to Information Technology Systems May Disrupt the Supply Chain The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to source and distribute merchandise efficiently. The Company continues to evaluate and is currently implementing modifications and upgrades to its information technology systems supporting the supply chain, including merchandise planning and forecasting, inventory and price management. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems or making changes to legacy systems. The Company is aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these core systems, including accurately capturing data, changes in inventory valuation and possibly encountering supply chain disruptions, and believes it is taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. The Company anticipates that the launch of these successor systems will take place in a phased approach over an approximate three-year period that began in 2004. There can be no assurances that the Company will successfully launch these new systems as planned or that they will occur without supply chain or other disruptions or without impacts on inventory valuation. These disruptions or impacts, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on Key Personnel Management believes that the Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Mr. Gregory P. Josefowicz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as certain other key officers of the Company and each of its subsidiaries. The loss of the services of Mr. Josefowicz or of such other key officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of its key officers. Additional Information The Company’s Web site is located at www.bordersgroupinc.com. The Company makes available on this Web site under “Investors,” annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after having electronically filed or furnished such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on this Web site are the Company’s corporate governance documents, including its committee charters and its Business Conduct Policy and a Code of Ethics Relating to Financial Reporting. The Company will disclose on its Web site any amendments to the Business Conduct Policy or the Code of Ethics Relating to Financial Reporting and any waiver of such policies applicable to any executive officer. Printed copies of any of the documents available on the Company’s Web site will be provided to any shareholder without charge upon written request to Anne Roman, Investor Relations, Borders Group, Inc., 100 Phoenix Drive, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48108-2202. The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as an exhibit to its Form 10-K annual reports for fiscal 2003 and 2004, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certifications regarding the quality of the Company’s public disclosure. During 2004, Mr. Josefowicz certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of any NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards. 10 Table of Contents 