Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Because our business is concentrated on intermodal marketing, any decrease in demand for intermodal transportation services compared to other transportation services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We derived 62% of our revenue from our intermodal services in both 2015 and 2014 and 64% in 2013. As a result, any decrease in demand for intermodal transportation services compared to other transportation services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we depend on railroads for our operations, our operating results and financial condition are likely to be adversely affected by any increase in rates, reduction or deterioration in rail service or change in the railroads’ reliance on us to market their intermodal transportation services. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for virtually all of the intermodal services we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to one or a few railroads. Consequently, a reduction in, or elimination of, rail service to a particular market is likely to adversely affect our ability to provide intermodal transportation services to some of our customers. In addition, the railroads are relatively free to adjust shipping rates up or down as market conditions permit. Declines in coal, crude oil and other commodity freight volumes negatively affect the business and profitability of the major railroads, which they may try to offset in part through higher rates to other customers, including us and other IMCs. Rate increases would result in higher intermodal transportation costs, reducing the attractiveness of intermodal transportation compared to truck or other transportation modes, which could cause a decrease in demand for our services. Further, our ability to continue to expand our intermodal transportation business is dependent upon the railroads’ ability to increase capacity for intermodal freight and provide consistent and reliable service. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage at one or more railroads or by adverse weather conditions or other factors that hinder the railroads’ ability to provide reliable transportation services. In the past, there have been service issues when railroads have merged. As a result, we cannot predict what effect, if any, further consolidations among railroads may have on intermodal transportation services or our results of operations. To date, the railroads have chosen to rely on us, other IMCs and other intermodal competitors to market their intermodal services rather than fully developing their own marketing capabilities. If one or more of the major railroads were to decide to reduce their dependence on us, the volume of intermodal shipments we arrange would likely decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 6 Because we rely on drayage companies in our intermodal operations, our ability to expand our business or maintain our profitability may be adversely affected by a shortage of drivers and drayage capacity. In certain markets we serve, we use third-party drayage companies for pickup and delivery of some or all of our intermodal containers. Most drayage companies operate relatively small fleets and have limited access to capital for fleet expansion. In some of our markets, there are a limited number of drayage companies that can meet our quality standards. This could limit our ability to expand our intermodal business or require us to establish more of our own drayage operations in some markets, which could increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Also, the trucking industry chronically experiences a shortage of available drivers, which may limit the ability of third-party drayage companies to expand their fleets. This shortage also may require them to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our cost of providing drayage services to our customers. Therefore, the driver shortage could also adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal business. Because we depend on trucking companies for our truck brokerage services, our ability to maintain or expand our truck brokerage business may be adversely affected by a shortage of trucking capacity. We derived 19% of our revenue from our truck brokerage services in 2015, 2014 and in 2013. We depend upon various third-party trucking companies for the transportation of our customers’ loads. Particularly during periods of economic expansion, trucking companies may be unable to expand their fleets due to capital constraints or chronic driver shortages, and these trucking companies also may raise their rates. If we face insufficient capacity among our third-party trucking companies, we may be unable to maintain or expand our truck brokerage business. Also, we may be unable to pass rate increases on to our customers, which could adversely affect our profitability. Because we depend on less than truckload companies for our logistic services, our ability to maintain or expand our logistics business may be adversely affected by a shortage of less than truckload capacity. We derived 19% of our revenue from our logistics services in both 2015 and 2014 and 17% in 2013. We depend on various less than truckload companies for the transportation of our customers’ freight. As many of our logistic contracts have a gain share component, changes in less than truckload rates due to these trucking companies being unable to expand their fleets or chronic driver shortages, may affect our profitability and our ability to retain our customers. Also, we may be unable to pass rate increases on to our customers, which could adversely affect our profitability. Because we use a significant number of independent contractors, such as owner operators, in our businesses, legislative, judicial and regulatory authorities could take actions or render decisions that change the independent contractor classification, which could have a significant impact on our gross margin and operating income. We do business with a large number of independent contractors, such as Mode LLC IBO’s and sales agents and Hub Group Trucking owner-operators, consistent with longstanding industry practices. Legislative, judicial, and regulatory (including tax) authorities could take actions or render decisions that could affect the independent contractor classifications. Class action and individual lawsuits have been filed against us and others in our industries, challenging the independent contractor classifications. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings for further discussion and see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements under “Legal Matters” for a description of material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and certain risks to our business presented by such matters. If current independent contractors are determined to be employees, then we may incur legal liabilities associated with that determination, such as liability for unpaid wages, overtime, employee health insurance and taxes. If we were to change how we treat independent contractors or reclassify independent contractors to employees, then we would likely incur expenses associated with that reclassification and could incur additional ongoing expenses. The costs associated with these matters could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and our financial position. We depend on third parties for equipment essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, we could lose customers and revenue. We depend on third parties for transportation equipment, such as tractors, containers, chassis and trailers, necessary for the operation of our business. Our industry has experienced equipment shortages in the past, particularly during the peak shipping season in the fall. A substantial amount of intermodal freight originates at or near the major West Coast ports, which have historically had the most severe equipment shortages. As an asset-light freight transportation management company, if we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment at a reasonable price from third parties to meet our customers’ needs, our customers may seek to have their transportation needs met by other providers with their own assets. This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 7 Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by draymen, truckers, port workers and railroad workers. There has been labor unrest, including strikes and work stoppages, among workers at various transportation providers and in industries affecting the transportation industry, such as port workers. We could lose business due to any significant work stoppage or slowdown and, if labor unrest results in increased rates for transportation providers such as draymen, we may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers. Strikes among longshoreman and clerical workers at ports in the past few years have slowed down the ports for a time, creating a major impact on the transportation industry. Work stoppages occurring among owner-operators in a specific market have increased our operating costs periodically over the past several years. In the past several years, there have been strikes involving railroad workers. Future strikes by railroad workers in the United States, Canada or anywhere else that our customers’ freight travels by railroad would impact our operations. Any significant work stoppage, slowdown or other disruption involving port workers, railroad workers, truckers or draymen could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Losing one or more key Mode LLC IBOs or sales agents could have an adverse effect on revenue and net income. Certain Mode LLC IBOs and sales-only agents represent a large portion of Mode’s overall revenues. Traditionally, transportation agents have shifted from company to company, although most companies, including Mode LLC, attempt to address this situation contractually. If one or more large IBOs or sales-only agents were to terminate their relationship with Mode LLC, there could be an adverse effect on Mode’s business and results of operations. Relatively small increases in our transportation costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers are likely to have a significant effect on our gross margin and operating income. Transportation costs represented 88% of our consolidated revenue in 2015, 90% in 2014 and 89% in 2013. Because transportation costs represent such a significant portion of our costs, even relatively small increases in these transportation costs, if we are unable to pass them through to our customers, are likely to have a significant effect on our gross margin and operating income. Transportation costs may increase if we are unable to sign on owner-operators or recruit employee drivers as this may increase driver costs or force us to use more expensive purchased transportation. Rail and third party carrier costs could increase and if we are unable to pass the cost increase through to our customers, the impact on our gross margin and operating income could be significant. Our business could be adversely affected by heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or other similar event. We cannot predict the effects on our business of heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or other similar events. It is possible that one or more of these events could be directed at U.S. or foreign ports, borders, railroads or highways. Heightened security measures or other events are likely to slow the movement of freight through U.S. or foreign ports, across borders or on U.S. or foreign railroads or highways and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any of these events could also negatively affect the economy and consumer confidence, which could cause a downturn in the transportation industry. If we fail to maintain and enhance our information technology systems, or if we fail to successfully implement new technology or enhancements, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and lose customers. Hub Group’s information technology systems are critical to our operations and our ability to compete effectively as an IMC, truck broker and logistics provider. We expect our customers to continue to demand more sophisticated information technology applications from their suppliers. To keep pace with changing technologies and client demands, we must anticipate market trends and enhance or replace our information technology systems or the features and functionality of our logistics software, which may involve significant research and development costs and implementation challenges. If we do not continue to enhance Hub Group’s Network Management System and the logistics software we use to meet the increasing demands of our customers, we fail to successfully implement these enhancements, or we are unable to replace our information technology systems to meet market demands, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and could lose customers, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Technology may also disrupt the way we and other IMCs and freight brokers operate. As technology improves, our customers may be able to find alternatives to our services for matching shipments with available freight hauling capacity. We must continue to develop innovative services and capabilities in order to continue to attract and maintain customer demand for our services. 8 Our information technology systems are subject to risks that we cannot control and the inability to use our information technology systems could materially adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers and vendors to access our information technology systems. This could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services. Disruptions and other damages to our information technology and other networks and operations and breaches in data security could adversely affect our business. Our current operations reside on multiple technology platforms. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to fire, power outages, equipment failure, Internet service and telecommunications failures, breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Failure to prevent or mitigate data loss from cyber-attacks or other security breaches could expose us or our vendors or customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or potential liability for us and otherwise harm our business. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive customer or vendor data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, adversely impacting our customer service, employee relationships and our reputation. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems and prevent data loss, there can be no assurance that our efforts may not prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could have an adverse effect on our business. The transportation industry is subject to government regulation, and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. The Company and various subsidiaries, including Mode LLC, are licensed by the Department of Transportation as motor carrier freight brokers. The Department of Transportation prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including surety bond requirements. Our Hub Group Trucking subsidiary is licensed by the Department of Transportation to act as a motor carrier. To date, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, the transportation industry is subject to legislative or regulatory changes, including potential limits on carbon emissions under climate change legislation and Department of Transportation regulations regarding, among other things, driver breaks and “restart” rules, that can affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and cost of providing, transportation services. We may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions or limits on vehicle weight and size. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services or increase the cost of providing transportation services, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or us in particular. Although government regulation that affects us and our competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed along to customers, that may not be the case. Antidumping and Other Duties Could be Imposed on Us and Our Suppliers We import 53 foot intermodal containers manufactured in China. A petition was filed requesting the United States Government to impose antidumping duties on these containers. Under United States law, an antidumping duty may be imposed on any imports if two conditions are met. First, the Department of Commerce must decide that the imports are being sold in the United States at less than fair value. Second, the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) must determine that the United States industry is materially injured, threatened with material injury or materially retarded by reason of the imports. The ITC’s determination of material injury or retardation involves a two-prong inquiry: first, whether the industry is materially injured or retarded, and second, whether the dumping, not other factors, caused the injury or retardation. The ITC is required to analyze the volume of imports, the effect of imports on United States prices for like merchandise, and the effects the imports have on United States producers of like products, taking into account many factors, including lost sales, market share, profits, productivity, return on investment, and utilization of production capacity. In May 2015, the ITC determined that antidumping duties should not be imposed on 53 foot intermodal containers manufactured in China. The petitioner has appealed this determination to the United States Court of International Trade, where its appeal is now pending. If antidumping or other increased duties are imposed on these containers, this could adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Our operations may be subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our customers. As a result, we may be subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling of hazardous materials. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our largest customers and the loss of several of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business. For Hub Group’s consolidated revenue, our largest 20 customers accounted for approximately 35% of our revenue in 2015 and 36% in 2014 and 34% in 2013. A reduction in or termination of our services by several of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business. Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims increase, our operating results could be adversely affected. We maintain insurance with licensed insurance companies. Our insurance and claims expense could increase when our current coverage expires. If these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates to our customers, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel including Mode LLC Sales Only Agents and IBOs. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining the services of our management team, Mode LLC sales-only agents and IBOs as well as our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of other qualified personnel to run our business. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the transportation services industry. As all key personnel devote their full time to our business, the loss of any member of our management team, key Mode LLC sales only agents or IBOs or other key persons could have an adverse effect on us. We do not have written employment agreements with any of our executive officers and do not maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers. Nearly all Mode LLC sales-only agents and IBOs are under contract with Mode LLC. Our growth could be adversely affected if we are not able to identify, successfully acquire and integrate future acquisition prospects. We believe that future acquisitions and/or the failure to make such acquisitions or integrate such acquired business could significantly impact financial results. Financial results most likely to be impacted include, but are not limited to, revenue, gross margin, salaries and benefits, selling general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, net income and our debt level. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients and we extend credit to certain clients as part of our business model. In most cases, we take full risk of credit loss for the transportation services we procure from carriers. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients. If any of our key clients fail to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted. 10 An economic downturn and cyclical fluctuations in the economy could materially adversely affect our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions. Uncertainty about United States and global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for transportation services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of disruptions in the financial markets and adverse economic conditions, and if the current uncertainty continues or economic conditions further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Other factors that could influence demand include fluctuations in fuel costs, labor costs, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. We have little or no control over any of these factors or their effects on the transportation industry. Increases in the operating costs of railroads, trucking companies or drayage companies can be expected to result in higher freight rates. Our operating margins could be adversely affected if we were unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of higher freight rates. Economic recession or a downturn in customers’ business cycles also may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth by reducing demand for our services. Therefore, our results of operations, like the entire freight transportation industry, are cyclical and subject to significant period-to-period fluctuations. There could be a number of follow-on effects from a credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key transportation providers and the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in a decreased demand for transportation services. Our revenues and gross margins are dependent upon this demand, and if demand for transportation services declines, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect our ability to engage in strategic transactions. The inability to obtain adequate financing from debt or capital sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our performance. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could also increase the volatility of our stock price. We are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Although we have not recognized any material losses on our cash and cash equivalents, future declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The value or liquidity of our cash and cash equivalents could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT In reliance on General Instruction G to Form 10-K, information on executive officers of the Registrant is included in this Part I. The table sets forth certain information as of February 1, 2016 with respect to each person who is an executive officer of the Company. 11 Name Age Position David P. Yeager 62 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Donald G. Maltby 61 President and Chief Operating Officer Terri A. Pizzuto 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer David L. Marsh 48 Chief Highway Solutions Officer Vava R. Dimond 49 Chief Information Officer James J. Damman 58 President of Mode Transportation John C. Vesco 53 Executive Vice President, President of Hub Group Trucking Brian D. Alexander 36 Executive Vice President of Unyson Logistics James B. Gaw 65 Executive Vice President - Sales Phillip D. Yeager 28 Executive Vice President – Account Management and Intermodal Operations Douglas G. Beck 49 Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel David P. Yeager has served as our Chairman of the Board since November 2008 and as Chief Executive Officer since March 1995. From March 1995 through November 2008, Mr. Yeager served as Vice Chairman of the Board. From October 1985 through December 1991, Mr. Yeager was President of Hub Chicago. From 1983 to October 1985, he served as Vice President, Marketing of Hub Chicago. Mr. Yeager founded the St. Louis Hub in 1980 and served as its President from 1980 to 1983. Mr. Yeager founded the Pittsburgh Hub in 1975 and served as its President from 1975 to 1977. Mr. Yeager received a Masters in Business Administration degree from the University of Chicago in 1987 and a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Dayton in 1975. Mr. Yeager is the father of Phillip D. Yeager and Matthew Yeager. Donald G. Maltby was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer in September 2015. Mr. Maltby served as Chief Supply Chain Officer of Hub Supply Chain Solutions from January 2011 to May 2014. From February 2004 to December 2010, Mr. Maltby served as Executive Vice President-Logistics Services. Mr. Maltby previously served as President of Hub Online, our e-commerce division, from February 2000 through January 2004. Mr. Maltby also served as President of Hub Cleveland from July 1990 through January 2000 and from April 2002 to January 2004. Prior to joining Hub Group, Mr. Maltby served as President of Lyons Transportation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sherwin Williams Company, from 1988 to 1990. In his career at Sherwin Williams, which began in 1981 and continued until he joined us in 1990, Mr. Maltby held a variety of management positions including Vice-President of Marketing and Sales for its Transportation Division. Mr. Maltby has been in the transportation and logistics industry since 1976, holding various executive and management positions. Mr. Maltby received a Masters in Business Administration from Baldwin Wallace College in 1982 and a Bachelor of Science degree from the State University of New York in 1976. Terri A. Pizzuto has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since March 2007. Prior to this promotion, Ms. Pizzuto was Vice President of Finance from July 2002 through February 2007. Prior to joining us, Ms. Pizzuto was a partner in the Assurance and Business Advisory Group at Arthur Andersen LLP. Ms. Pizzuto worked for Arthur Andersen LLP for 22 years holding various positions and serving numerous transportation companies. Ms. Pizzuto received a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from the University of Illinois in 1981. Ms. Pizzuto is a CPA and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. David L. Marsh was named our Chief Highway Solutions Officer in September 2015. Prior to this promotion, Mr. Marsh served as Chief Supply Chain Officer since May 2014. Previously, Mr. Marsh served as Chief Marketing Officer from October 2007 to May 2014. Mr. Marsh was Executive Vice President-Highway from February 2004 through September 2007. Mr. Marsh previously served as President of Hub Ohio from January 2000 through January 2004. Mr. Marsh joined us in March 1991 and became General Manager with Hub Indianapolis in 1993, a position he held through December 1999. Prior to joining Hub Group, Mr. Marsh worked for Carolina Freight Corporation, a less than truckload carrier, starting in January 1990. Mr. Marsh received a Bachelor of Science degree in Marketing and Physical Distribution from Indiana University-Indianapolis in 1989. Mr. Marsh has been a member of the American Society of Transportation and Logistics, the Indianapolis Traffic Club, the Council for Logistics Management and served as an advisor to the Indiana University-Indianapolis internship program for transportation and logistics. Mr. Marsh was honored as the Indiana Transportation Person of the Year in 1999. 12 Vava R. Dimond was named Chief Information Officer in April 2015 after serving as the Interim Chief Information Officer since September 2014. Ms. Dimond began her career with Hub Group in June 2013 as the Vice President of Business Engineering, responsible for overseeing Hub Group’s Business Intelligence, Business Engineering and Program Management projects and processes. Previously, Ms. Dimond spent 16 years with Schneider National and held several leadership positions within IT, most recently serving as Vice President of Technology Services. Ms. Dimond earned her Bachelor of Science degree in Economics from South Dakota State University in 1991. James J. Damman assumed the role of President of Mode LLC, following the acquisition of Exel Transportation Services from Deutsche Post DHL in April 2011. Prior to this transaction, Mr. Damman served as a President of Exel Transportation Services and President of Technology, Aerospace and Service Logistics Americas for DHL/Exel. Before Exel, he served as a President of Transentric LLC, a supply chain technology provider. Prior to this, Mr. Damman held senior executive roles in operations, marketing, sales and customer service with the Union Pacific Railroad. Mr. Damman has been in Transportation and Supply Chain Management since 1980, holding various executive and management positions. Mr. Damman received a Bachelor of Science degree in Business from Central Michigan University in 1980 and a Master of Business Administration from Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville in 1986. John C. Vesco was named Executive Vice President, President of Hub Group Trucking in January 2016. Mr. Vesco has led Hub Group Trucking’s operations as its President since January 2015, after serving as Executive Vice President of Hub Group Trucking from March 2012 to December 2014. Prior to joining Hub Group, Mr. Vesco held several management positions with Schneider National, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of Schneider Logistics. Mr. Vesco earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Finance and Business Administration from Walsh University and a Master of Business Administration degree from Silver Lake College. Brian D. Alexander was named Executive Vice President of Unyson Logistics in September 2015. Before being named Executive Vice President, Mr. Alexander served as Vice President of Operations of Unyson Logistics from December 2010 to September 2015 and was responsible for the operational execution and excellence for Fortune 500 manufacturing, retail and consumer packaged goods clients. Prior to that, Mr. Alexander was Unyson’s Senior Director of Strategic Accounts, where he had a ten-year history of managing and directing continuous improvement initiatives for key accounts. Mr. Alexander earned a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Marquette University and Master of Business Administration degree from Cardinal Stritch University. James B. Gaw has been our Executive Vice President-Sales since February 2004. From December 1996 through January 2004, Mr. Gaw was President of Hub North Central, located in Milwaukee. From 1990 through late 1996, he was Vice President and General Manager of Hub Chicago. Mr. Gaw joined Hub Chicago as Sales Manager in 1988. Mr. Gaw’s entire career has been spent in the transportation industry, including 13 years of progressive leadership positions at Itofca, an intermodal marketing company, and Flex Trans. Mr. Gaw received a Bachelor of Science degree from Elmhurst College in 1973. Phillip D. Yeager was named Executive Vice President, Account Management and Intermodal Operations in January 2016 after serving as Vice President of Account Management and Business Development from February 2014 to January 2016. Mr. Yeager is responsible for managing Hub Group’s overall customer experience, including customer service, intermodal operations and rail relationships. Mr. Yeager joined Hub Group in 2011 as the Director of Strategy and Acquisitions to focus on strategic initiatives and acquisitions throughout the company and lead the integration of Mode Transportation. Prior to joining Hub Group, Mr. Yeager served as Assistant Vice President of Commercial Banking at BMO Harris Bank, and as an investment banking analyst for Lazard Freres & Co. Mr. Yeager earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Mr. Yeager is the son of David P. Yeager. Douglas G. Beck was named Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel in July 2015 after serving as the Interim General Counsel since January 2015. In his role, Mr. Beck is responsible for managing the Legal, Human Resources and Compliance departments. Mr. Beck began his career with Hub Group in June 2011 as Assistant General Counsel. Prior to joining Hub Group, Mr. Beck was a Senior Attorney with Alberto-Culver Company from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Beck previously held counsel positions at Navistar International Corporation, Allegiance Healthcare Corporation and Seyfarth Shaw. Mr. Beck earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Illinois in 1987 graduating summa cum laude and received his Juris Doctor from Northwestern University School of Law in 1992. Directors of the Registrant In addition to David P. Yeager, the following four individuals are also on our Board of Directors: Gary D. Eppen – currently retired and formerly the Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Operations Management and Deputy Dean for part-time Masters in Business Administration Programs at The University of Chicago Booth School of Business; Charles R. Reaves – Chief Executive Officer of Reaves Enterprises, Inc., a real estate development company, Martin P. Slark – Chief Executive Officer of Molex Incorporated, a manufacturer of electronic, electrical and fiber optic interconnection products and systems, and Jonathan P. Ward – Operating Partner at Kohlberg & Co., a leading U.S. private equity firm. 13 