Risk Factors,” and the documents incorporated by reference in this report. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers as of July 19, 2007 are listed below. Clarence Otis, Jr., age 51, has been our Chairman of the Board since November 2005, Chief Executive Officer since November 2004, and a Director since September 2004. Mr. Otis was our Executive Vice President from March 2002 until November 2004 and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill from December 2002 until November 2004. He served as our Senior Vice President from December 1999 until March 2002, and our Chief Financial Officer from December 1999 until December 2002. He joined us in 1995 as Vice President and Treasurer. He served as our Senior Vice President, Investor Relations from July 1997 to August 1998, and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from August 1998 until December 1999. From 1991 to 1995, he was employed by Chemical Securities, Inc. (now J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.), an investment banking firm, where he had been Managing Director and Manager of Public Finance. Andrew H. (Drew) Madsen, age 51, has been our President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2004, and a Director since September 2004. Mr. Madsen was our Senior Vice President and President of Olive Garden from March 2002 until November 2004, and Executive Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden from December 1998 to March 2002. From 1997 until joining us, he was President of International Master Publishers, 10 Table of Contents Inc., a company that developed and marketed consumer information products such as magazines and compact discs. From 1993 until 1997, he held various positions at James River Corporation (now part of Georgia-Pacific Corporation, a diversified paper and building products manufacturer), including Vice President and General Manager for the Dixie consumer products unit. From 1980 until 1992, he held various marketing positions with our former parent company, General Mills, Inc. a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products. James (J.J.) Buettgen, age 47, has been our Senior Vice President, Business Development since May 2007. He served as our Senior Vice President and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill from November 2004 until May 2007, and our Senior Vice President and President-designate of Smokey Bones from August 2004 until November 2004. From July 2003 until August 2004, he was President of Big Bowl Asian Kitchen, a casual dining company owned by Brinker International, Inc., a restaurant operator, and from October 2002 until June 2003 he was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Brand Development for Brinker. From 1999 to 2002, he was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales for Disneyland Resorts, a division of the Walt Disney Company, where he helped launch Disney’s California Adventure theme park, and from 1998 to 1999 was Senior Vice President of Marketing for Hollywood Entertainment Group, a video retailer. He held several marketing posts with our former parent company, General Mills, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products, from 1989 through 1994, and served first as a director and then as Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden from 1994 until 1998. Laurie B. Burns, age 45, has been our Senior Vice President and President of Bahama Breeze since March 2003. She joined us in April 1999 as Vice President of Development for Red Lobster, and served as our Senior Vice President, Development from September 2000 until March 2003. She was a private real estate consultant from October 1998 until joining us in April 1999, and was Regional Vice President for Development for the Eastern United States at Homestead Village, an extended-stay hotel company, from 1995 to 1998. Valerie K. Collins, age 48, has been our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Information Officer since December 2006. She served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2003 until December 2006, and Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller for Red Lobster from August 1998 until January 2003. She joined Red Lobster in 1985 as Manager of Accounting Systems and held progressively more responsible positions until being promoted to Vice President Finance and Controller for Olive Garden in 1994 and to Senior Vice President Finance and Controller for Olive Garden in 1996. Kim A. Lopdrup, age 49, has been our Senior Vice President and President of Red Lobster since May 2004. He joined us in November 2003 as Executive Vice President of Marketing for Red Lobster. From 2001 until 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for North American operations of Burger King Corporation, an operator and franchiser of fast food restaurants. From 1985 until 2001, he worked for Allied Domecq Quick Service Restaurants (“ADQSR”), a franchiser of quick service restaurants including Dunkin’ Donuts, Baskin-Robbins and Togo’s Eateries, where he held progressively more responsible positions in marketing, strategic and general management roles, eventually serving as Chief Executive Officer of ADQSR International. Daniel M. Lyons, age 54, has been our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since January 1997. He joined us in 1993 as Senior Vice President of Personnel for Olive Garden. Prior to joining Olive Garden, he spent 18 years with the Quaker Oats Company, an international marketer of food and beverage products, holding increasingly more responsible positions including Vice President Human Resources for the North American Breakfast Food Division. Robert McAdam, age 49, has been our Senior Vice President of Government and Community Affairs since December 2006. Prior to joining us, he was employed by retailer Wal-Mart Inc. as Vice President, Corporate Affairs from 2004 to 2006, and Vice President, State and Local Government Relations from 2000 to 2004. From 1997 to 2000 he was a Senior Vice President of Fleishman-Hillard, an international public relations firm. Barry B. Moullet, age 49, has been our Senior Vice President, Supply Chain since August 2006. From August 2003 until August 2006, he served as our Senior Vice President, Supply Chain & Development. He served as our Senior Vice President Purchasing, Distribution and Food Safety from June 1999 until August 2003. He joined us in July 1996 as Senior Vice President, Purchasing and Distribution. Prior to joining us, he spent 15 years in the purchasing field in various positions with Restaurant Services, Inc., a Burger King purchasing co-operative, KFC Corporation and the Pillsbury Company. 11 Table of Contents David T. Pickens, age 52, has been our Senior Vice President and President of Olive Garden since December 2004. He joined us in 1973 as a Red Lobster hourly employee, and progressed from manager trainee to regional operations manager, director of operations, and ultimately was promoted to a division Senior Vice President of Operations for Red Lobster. He joined Olive Garden in 1995 as Senior Vice President of Operations for the Orlando division and was promoted to Executive Vice President of Operations in September 1999, where he served until his promotion to President of Olive Garden in December 2004. C. Bradford Richmond, age 48, has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2006. From August 2005 to December 2006, he served as our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. He served as Senior Vice President Finance, Strategic Planning and Controller of Red Lobster from January 2003 to August 2005, and previously was Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller at Olive Garden from August 1998 to January 2003. He joined us in 1982 as a food and beverage analyst for Casa Gallardo, a restaurant concept formerly owned and operated by us, and from June 1985 to August 1998 held progressively more responsible finance and marketing positions with our York Steak House, Red Lobster and Olive Garden operating companies in both the United States and Canada. Paula J. Shives, age 56, has been our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 1999. Prior to joining us, she served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1995 to 1999, and Associate General Counsel from 1985 to 1995, of Long John Silver’s Restaurants, Inc., a seafood restaurant company. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this report or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Therefore, the following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The casual dining sector of the restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to pricing, service, location, personnel and type and quality of food, and there are many well-established competitors. We compete within each market with national and regional restaurant chains and locally-owned restaurants. We also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry which offers “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and side dishes from the deli section. We compete primarily on the quality, variety and value perception of menu items. The number and location of restaurants, type of concept, quality and efficiency of service, attractiveness of facilities and effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs are also important factors. We anticipate that intense competition will continue with respect to all of these factors. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Certain economic and business factors specific to the restaurant industry and certain general economic factors including energy prices and interest rates that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business results depend on a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. The casual dining sector of the restaurant industry is affected by changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, seasonal fluctuation of sales volumes, consumer preferences, including changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits and the level of consumer acceptance of our restaurant concepts, and consumer spending patterns. The performance of individual restaurants may also be adversely affected by factors such as demographic trends, severe weather including hurricanes, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. 12 Table of Contents In addition, general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown, a worsening economy, increased energy prices, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures could affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions and lead to a decline in sales and earnings. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase with rising interest rates, our guests may have lower disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out, or may choose more inexpensive restaurants when eating outside the home. Furthermore, we cannot predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state or group located in a foreign state or heightened security requirements on the economy or consumer confidence in the United States. Any of these events could also affect consumer spending patterns or result in increased costs for us due to security measures. Unfavorable changes in the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could increase our costs, reduce traffic in some or all of our restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities used by our restaurants could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food, ingredients, utilities and other related costs over which we may have little control. Operating margins for our restaurants are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities, including shrimp, lobster, crab and other seafood, as well as beef, pork, chicken, cheese and produce. The introduction of or changes to tariffs on imported shrimp or other food products could increase our costs and possibly impact the supply of those products. We are subject to the general risks of inflation. In addition, possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items caused by inclement weather or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the items we buy. Our restaurants’ operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as electricity and natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which the restaurants depend for their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to increased labor and insurance costs. Our restaurant operations are subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as minimum wages, working conditions, overtime and tip credits. As federal and state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Labor shortages and increased employee turnover could also increase our labor costs. If competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline. In addition, the current premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property, health, and directors’ and officers’ liability) may increase at any time, thereby further increasing our costs. The dollar amount of claims that we actually experience under our workers’ compensation and general liability insurance, for which we carry high per-claim deductibles, may also increase at any time, thereby further increasing our costs. Further, the decreased availability of property and liability insurance has the potential to negatively impact the cost of premiums and the magnitude of uninsured losses. Increased advertising and marketing costs could adversely affect our results of operations. If our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising and promotions become less effective than that of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may experience higher-than-anticipated costs associated with the opening of new restaurants or with the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenues and expenses can be impacted significantly by the number and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial pre-opening 13 Table of Contents expenses each time we open a new restaurant and other expenses when we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. The expenses of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our services, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns. Negative publicity may also result from actual or alleged violations by our restaurants of “dram shop” laws which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated party who then causes injury to himself or to a third party. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety could have a material adverse effect on our business. A lack of availability of suitable locations for new restaurants or a decline in the quality of the locations of our current restaurants may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their location. As demographic and economic patterns change, current locations may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in neighborhoods where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in areas surrounding those neighborhoods could result in reduced revenues in those locations. In addition, desirable locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to a number of risks relating to federal, state and local regulation of our business that may increase our costs and decrease our profit margins. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and those relating to the preparation and sale of food. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and applicable requirements concerning the minimum wage, overtime, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. 14 Table of Contents Our growth through the opening of new restaurants and the development or acquisition of new dining concepts may not be successful and could result in poor financial performance. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our current portfolio of restaurant concepts and to develop or acquire additional concepts that can be expanded profitably. This strategy involves numerous risks, and we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives. We may not be able to open all of our planned new restaurants, and the new restaurants that we open may not be profitable or as profitable as our existing restaurants. New restaurants typically experience an adjustment period before sales levels and operating margins normalize, and even sales at successful newly-opened restaurants generally do not make a significant contribution to profitability in their initial months of operation. The opening of new restaurants can also have an adverse effect on sales levels at existing restaurants. Furthermore, we may not be able to develop or acquire additional concepts that are as profitable as our existing restaurants. Growth through acquisitions may involve additional risks. For example, we may pay too much for a concept relative to the actual economic return, be required to borrow funds to make our acquisition (which would increase our interest expense) or be unable to integrate an acquired concept into our operations. The ability to open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to various risks, such as the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals and liquor licenses) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, the ability to manage union activities such as picketing or hand billing which could delay construction, increases in labor and building material costs, the availability of financing at acceptable rates and terms, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants for an indeterminate amount of time, our ability to hire and train qualified management personnel and general economic and business conditions. At each potential location, we compete with other restaurants and retail businesses for desirable development sites, construction contractors, management personnel, hourly employees and other resources. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. Our plans to expand our newer concepts Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 that have not yet proven their long-term viability may not be successful, which could require us to make substantial further investments in those concepts and result in further losses and impairments. While each of our restaurant concepts, as well as each of our individual restaurants, are subject to the risks and uncertainties described above, there is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the operation and expansion of our newer concepts such as Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52. These concepts have not yet proven their long-term viability or growth potential. We have made substantial investments in the development and expansion of each of these concepts, and further investment is required. While we have implemented a number of changes to operations at Bahama Breeze, and believe we have improved the guest experience and unit economics sufficiently to restart modest unit growth in fiscal 2009, there can be no assurance that these changes will continue to be successful or that new unit growth will occur. Seasons 52 also is in the very early stages of its development and will require additional resources to support further growth. In each case, these brands will continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties that accompany any emerging restaurant concept. Our efforts to sell our Smokey Bones restaurants may not be successful, or the restaurants may be sold for less than is expected, which could result in further losses and impairments. On May 5, 2007, we closed 54 Smokey Bones and two Rocky River Grillhouse restaurants, indicated our intention to operate the remaining 73 Smokey Bones while seeking a buyer, and incurred non-cash impairment charges relating to these actions. We will attempt to sell the closed Smokey Bones restaurants that are owned and not leased, but there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We intend to offer the remaining operating Smokey Bones restaurants and related assets for sale, but there can be no assurances that we will identify an acceptable buyer or negotiate 15 Table of Contents acceptable terms of sale. If our operating Smokey Bones restaurants are not sold, we may continue to operate or close them, either of which could result in further losses and impairment charges. Even if our Smokey Bones restaurants, whether operating or closed, are sold, the purchase price could be lower than expected, also resulting in further losses and impairments. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 