Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Since our business is concentrated on intermodal marketing, any decrease in demand for intermodal transportation services compared to other transportation services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we derived 73% of our revenue from our intermodal services. As a result, any decrease in demand for intermodal transportation services compared to other transportation services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we depend on railroads for our operations, our operating results and financial condition are likely to be adversely affected by any reduction or deterioration in rail service. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for virtually all of the intermodal services we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to one or a few railroads. Consequently, a reduction in, or elimination of, rail service to a particular market is likely to adversely affect our ability to provide intermodal transportation services to some of our customers. In addition, the railroads are relatively free to adjust shipping rates up or down as market conditions permit. Rate increases would result in higher intermodal transportation costs, reducing the attractiveness of intermodal transportation compared to truck or other transportation modes, which could cause a decrease in demand for our services. Further, our ability to continue to expand our intermodal transportation business is dependent upon the railroads’ ability to increase capacity for intermodal freight and provide consistent service. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage at one or more railroads or by adverse weather conditions or other factors that hinder the railroads’ ability to provide reliable transportation services. In the past, there have been service issues when railroads have merged. As a result, we cannot predict what effect, if any, further consolidation among railroads may have on intermodal transportation services or our results of operations. Because our relationships with the major railroads are critical to our ability to provide intermodal transportation services, our business may be adversely affected by any change to those relationships. We have important relationships with each of the major U.S. railroads. To date, the railroads have chosen to rely on us, other IMCs and other intermodal competitors to market their intermodal services rather than fully developing their own marketing capabilities. If one or more of the major railroads were to decide to reduce their dependence on us, the volume of intermodal shipments we arrange would likely decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Because we rely on drayage companies in our intermodal operations, our ability to expand our business or maintain our profitability may be adversely affected by a shortage of drayage capacity. In many of the markets we serve, we use third-party drayage companies for pickup and delivery of intermodal containers. Most drayage companies operate relatively small fleets and have limited access to capital for fleet expansion. In some of our markets, there are a limited number of drayage companies that can meet ourquality standards. This could limit our ability to expand our intermodal business or require us to establish our own drayage operations in some markets, which could increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Also, the trucking industry chronically experiences a shortage of available drivers, which may limit the ability of third-party drayage companies to expand their fleets. This shortage also may require them to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our 5 cost of providing drayage services to our customers. Therefore, the driver shortage could also adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal business. Because we depend on trucking companies for our truck brokerage services, our ability to maintain or expand our truck brokerage business may be adversely affected by a shortage of trucking capacity. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we derived 19%, 19% and 18%, respectively, of our revenue from our truck brokerage services. We depend upon various third-party trucking companies for the transportation of our customers’ loads. Particularly during periods of economic expansion, trucking companies may be unable to expand their fleets due to capital constraints or chronic driver shortages, and these trucking companies also may raise their rates. If we face insufficient capacity among our third-party trucking companies, we may be unable to maintain or expand our truck brokerage business. Also, we may be unable to pass rate increases on to our customers, which could adversely affect our profitability. Because we use a significant number of independent contractors in our businesses, proposals from legislative, judicial or regulatory authorities that change the independent contractor classification could have a significant impact on our gross margin and operating income. We use a significant number of independent contractors in our businesses, consistent with long-standing industry practices. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the independent contractor classification of a significant number of independent contractors doing business with us. Although management believes that there are no proposals currently pending that would change the classification of independent contractors that do business with us, the costs associated with potential reclassifications could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and our financial position. We depend on third parties for equipment essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, we could lose customers and revenue. We depend on third parties for transportation equipment, such as containers and trailers, necessary for the operation of our business. Our industry has experienced equipment shortages in recent years, particularly during the peak-shipping season in the fall. A substantial amount of intermodal freight originates at or near the major West Coast ports, which have historically had the most severe equipment shortages. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment at a reasonable price from third parties to meet our customers’ needs, our customers may seek to have their transportation needs met by other providers. This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by draymen, truckers, longshoremen and railroad workers. There has been labor unrest, including work stoppages, among draymen. We could lose business from any significant work stoppage or slowdown and, if labor unrest results in increased rates for draymen, we may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers. In the Fall of 2002, all of the West Coast ports were shut down as a result of a dispute with the longshoremen. The ports remained closed for nearly two weeks, until reopened as the result of a court order under the Taft-Hartley Act. Our operations were adversely affected by the shutdown. In January 2003, a new six-year contract was agreed to by the International Longshoremen and Warehouse Union and the Pacific Maritime Association. In the past several years, there have been strikes involving railroad workers. Future strikes by railroad workers in the United States, Canada or anywhere else that our customers’ freight travels by railroad could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any significant work stoppage, slowdown or other disruption involving ports, railroads, truckers or draymen could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are susceptible to changes in general economic conditions and cyclical fluctuations. Economic recession, customers’ business cycles, changes in fuel prices and supply, interest rate fluctuations, increases in fuel or energy taxes and other general economic factors affect the demand for transportation services and the operating costs of railroads, trucking companies and drayage companies. We have little or no control over any of these factors or their effects on the transportation industry. Increases in the operating costs of railroads, trucking companies or drayage companies can be expected to result in higher freight rates. Our operating margins could be adversely affected if we were unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of higher freight rates. Economic recession or a downturn in customers’ business cycles also may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth by reducing demand for our services. Therefore, our results of operations, like the entire freight transportation industry, are cyclical and subject to significant period-to-period fluctuations. 6 Relatively small increases in our transportation costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers are likely to have a significant effect on our gross margin and operating income. Transportation costs represented 86%, 86% and 88% of our consolidated revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Because transportation costs represent such a significant portion of our costs, even relatively small increases in these transportation costs, if we are unable to pass them through to our customers, are likely to have a significant effect on our gross margin and operating income. Our business could be adversely affected by heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or other similar event. We cannot predict the effects on our business of heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or other similar events. It is possiblethat one or more of these events could be directed at U.S. or foreign ports, borders, railroads or highways. Heightened security measures or other events are likely to slow the movement of freight through U.S. or foreign ports, across borders or on U.S. or foreign railroads or highways and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any of these events could also negatively affect the economy and consumer confidence, which could cause a downturn in the transportation industry. If we fail to maintain and enhance our information technology systems, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and lose customers. Our information technology systems are critical to our operations and our ability to compete effectively as an IMC, truck broker and logistics provider. We expect our customers to continue to demand more sophisticated information technology applications from their suppliers. If we do not continue to enhance our Network Management System and the logistics software we use to meet the increasing demands of our customers, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and could lose customers. Our information technology systems are subject to risks that we cannot control and the inability to use our information technology systems could materially adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers and vendors to access our information technology systems. This could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services. The transportation industry is subject to government regulation, and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Hub Group, Inc. and various subsidiaries are licensed by the Department of Transportation as motor carrier freight brokers. The Department of Transportation prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including surety-bonding requirements. To date, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, the transportation industry is subject to legislative or regulatory changes that can affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and cost of providing, transportation services. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services or increase the cost of providing transportation services, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our customers. As a result, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling of hazardous materials. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our largest customers and the loss of several of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business. For 2007, our largest 20 customers accounted for approximately 35% of our revenue. A reduction in or termination of our services by several of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business. Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. We maintain insurance with licensed insurance companies. Insurance carriers have recently raised premiums. As a result, our insurance and claims expenses could increase when our current coverage expires. If these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining the services of our management team as well as our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of other qualified personnel to run our business. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the transportation services industry. As all key personnel devote their full time to our business, the loss of any member of our management team or other key person could have an adverse effect on us. We do not have written employment agreements with any of our executive officers and do not maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers. Our growth could be adversely affected if we are not ableto identify, successfully acquire and integrate future acquisition prospects. We believe that future acquisitions that we make could significantly impact financial results. Financial results most likely to be impacted include, but are not limited to, revenue, gross margin, salaries and benefits, selling general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, net income and our debt level. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 