ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors that may affect our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business could be harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. 3 Table of Contents The termination, non-renewal or renegotiation on materially adverse terms of our contracts or relationships with one or more of our significant retailers, studios or game publishers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to maintain contractual relationships with our retailers in profitable locations. A typical Redbox or Coin retail contract ranges from three to five years and automatically renews until we or the retailer gives notice of termination. Certain contract provisions with our retailers vary, including product and service offerings, the service fees we are committed to pay each retailer, and the ability to cancel the contract upon notice after a certain period of time. We strive to provide direct and indirect benefits to our retailers that are superior to, or competitive with, other providers or systems or alternative uses of the floor space that our kiosks occupy. If we are unable to provide our retailers with adequate benefits, we may be unable to maintain or renew our contractual relationships on acceptable terms, causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We do a substantial amount of our business with certain retailers. For example, we have significant relationships with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Walgreen Co., and The Kroger Company, which accounted for approximately 16.0%, 16.0%, and 10.7% of our consolidated revenue from continuing operations, respectively, during 2012. Although we have had, and expect to continue to have, a successful relationship with these retailers, changes to these relationships will continue to occur both in the long and short-term, some of which could adversely affect our business and reputation. For example, our Coin and Redbox relationship with Walmart is governed by contracts that provide either party the right to terminate the contracts in their entirety, or as to any store serviced by the contracts, with or without cause, on as little as 90 days’ notice. Cancellation, adverse renegotiation of or other changes to these relationships could seriously harm our business and reputation. In addition, our business depends on our ability to obtain adequate content from movie studios and video game publishers. We have entered into licensing agreements with certain studios to provide delivery of their DVDs by the “street date,” the first date on which DVD releases are available to the general public for home entertainment purposes on either a rental or sell-through basis. In addition, we have licensing arrangements with other studios that make DVDs available for rent 28 days or more after the street date. If we are unable to maintain or renew our current relationships to obtain movie or video game content on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. There are many risks related to our Redbox business that may negatively impact our business. The home video industry is highly competitive with many factors affecting our ability to profitably manage our Redbox business. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, substantially to establish and maintain our infrastructure of Redbox kiosks in the U.S. and Canada. The home video distribution market is rapidly evolving as newer technologies and distribution channels compete for market share. There is no assurance that the Redbox kiosk channel will maintain or achieve additional market share over the long-term, and if it does not, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Some of the risks that could negatively impact our participation in this industry include: • Changes in consumer content delivery preferences, including increased use of digital video recorders, pay-per-view delivered by cable or satellite providers and similar technologies, digital downloads, online streaming, portable devices, and other mediums, video on demand, subscription video on demand, disposable or download-to-burn DVDs, DVDs with enhanced picture, sound quality or bonus content, or less demand for high volume of new movie content due to such things as larger home DVD and downloaded movie libraries; • Increased availability of digital movie content inventory through digital video recorders, pay-per-view delivered by cable or satellite providers and similar technologies, online streaming, digital downloads, portable devices, digital lockers, and other mediums; 4 Table of Contents • Decreased quantity and quality of movie content availability for DVD distribution due to movie content failing to appeal to consumers’ tastes, increased focus on digital sales, and other general industry-related factors, including financial disruptions, and labor conflicts; • Due to arrangements with certain studios that provide content on a delayed basis, the availability of some new releases in our kiosks may shift to times when consumers are relatively less likely to rent movies, or may be in genres that are off seasonally, such as a holiday movie unavailable until January; and • Decreased costs for consumers to purchase or receive movie content, including less expensive DVDs, more aggressive competitor pricing strategies and piracy. Adverse developments relating to any of these risks, as well as others relating to our participation in the home video industry, could significantly affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our inability to receive delivery of DVDs on the date of their initial release to the general public, or shortly thereafter, for home entertainment viewing could adversely affect our Redbox business. Traditionally, businesses that rented movies in physical formats, such as DVDs, had enjoyed a competitive advantage over other movie distribution rental channels. After the initial theatrical release of a movie, the major studios generally had made their movies available on physical formats for a 30- to 45-day release window before release to other movie distribution rental channels, such as pay-per view, video-on-demand, premium television, basic cable, and network and syndicated television. However, certain movie studios have changed or are changing and other movie studios could change their practices, including shortening or discontinuing altogether, or otherwise restricting, movie distribution windows, including making video-on-demand or other digital delivery methods available prior to or simultaneous with the physical DVD release. For example, certain movie studios have made new release titles available on video-on-demand or for online purchase on the same date as the DVD release, and certain movies have been made available via premium video-on-demand while they are still in theaters. Further, some studios have implemented restrictions on renting DVDs for weeks following the initial release of the same title for purchase. For example, Redbox has entered into arrangements with certain studios that include delayed rental windows. Entering into these studio licensing arrangements that contain a delayed rental window may decrease consumer satisfaction and consumer demand, and we may lose consumers to our competitors that offer DVD titles without a delayed rental window. In addition, studios may seek to impose longer delays, or studios that currently provide content on street date may seek similar delays. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we believe that the 28-day delayed rental window of certain of our DVD titles during the holiday season negatively impacted our fourth quarter 2010 rental and financial results. If we do not manage our content library effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A critical element of our Redbox business model is to optimize our library of DVD titles, formats, and copy depth to achieve satisfactory availability rates to meet consumer demand while also maximizing margins. If we do not timely acquire sufficient DVD titles, due to, for example, not correctly anticipating demand, intentionally acquiring fewer copies than needed to fully satisfy demand or the lack of available titles, we may not appropriately satisfy consumer demand, which could decrease consumer satisfaction and we could lose consumers to competitors. Conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire a larger number of copies to achieve higher availability rates for select titles or a wider range of titles, our library utilization would become less efficient and our margins for the Redbox business would be adversely affected. Our ability to accurately predict consumer demand as well as market factors, such as our ability to obtain satisfactory distribution arrangements, may impact our ability to timely acquire appropriate quantities of certain DVD titles. In addition, 5 Table of Contents if we are unable to obtain or maintain favorable terms from our suppliers with respect to such matters as timely movie access, copy depth, formats and product destruction, among others, or if the price of DVDs increases or decreases generally or for certain titles, our library may become unbalanced and our margins may be adversely affected. For example, we believe that in the fourth quarter of 2010, we purchased too many copies of DVDs for our kiosks, and removed older titles too early, negatively impacting our revenues and gross margins. Further, the delay in our ability to rent certain studios’ DVD titles pursuant to a delayed rental window may negatively affect consumer satisfaction and demand, and we could lose consumers to our competitors because of the timing of our library. In addition, if we are unable to comply with, or lack the necessary internal controls to ensure appropriate documentation and tracking of our content library, we may, among other things, violate certain of our studio licensing arrangements, be forced to pay a fee for unaccounted for DVDs and be susceptible to risks of theft and misuse of property, any of which may negatively affect our margins in the Redbox business. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we have entered into licensing agreements with certain studios to provide delivery of their DVDs by the “street date,” and with other studios to make DVDs available for rent 28 days or more after the street date. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if these agreements do not provide the expected benefits to us. For example, these agreements require us to license minimum quantities of theatrical and direct-to-video DVDs for rental at our kiosks. If the titles or format provided are not attractive to our consumers, we will be required to purchase too many copies of undesirable titles or an undesirable format, possibly in substantial amounts, which could adversely affect our Redbox business by decreasing consumer demand for offered DVD titles and consumer satisfaction with our services or negatively impacting margins. If studios that do not have a delayed rental window elect to delay the general release of DVDs to the rental market for significant periods after they are released for retail sales, demand for rental of these titles may be adversely affected. If consumers choose to rent these DVD titles from our competitors, purchase the DVD titles rather than rent from us, or find our DVD title selection unbalanced or unappealing, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have incurred, and may continue to incur, additional non-cash increases to operating expenses, which are amortized over the terms of any such arrangements, that also could have a dilutive impact on our stockholders, such as the issuance of equity under certain of our existing studio contracts or to the extent we enter into similar arrangements with other movie studios in the future. Further, if some or all of these agreements prove beneficial but are early terminated, we could be negatively impacted. Moreover, if we cannot maintain similar arrangements in the future with these or other studios or distributors, or these arrangements do not provide the expected benefits to us, our business could suffer. If we cannot execute on our strategy and offer new automated retail products and services, including through our New Ventures segment, our business could suffer. Our strategy is based upon leveraging our core competencies in the automated retail space to provide the consumer with convenience and value and to help retailers drive incremental traffic and revenue. To be competitive, we need to develop, or otherwise provide, new product and service offerings that are accepted by the market and establish third-party relationships necessary to develop and commercialize such product and service offerings. We are exploring new businesses to enter, and new products and services to offer, including through our New Ventures segment, however, the complexities and structures of these new businesses could create conflicting priorities, constrain limited resources, and negatively impact our core businesses. We may use our financial resources and managements time and focus to invest in other companies offering automated retail services, such as our investment in ecoATM, a company that provides an automated eCycling station that captures, tracks and recycles mobile devices, or we may seek to grow businesses organically, such as our RubiTM coffee kiosk venture, or we may seek to offer new products on our current kiosks, such as video games or tickets on the Redbox kiosk, or new Coin-to-Commerce products on our Coin kiosk. We may enter into joint ventures, such as Redbox Instant by Verizon, through which we may expand our product offerings. Any new business 6 Table of Contents opportunity also may have its own unique risks related to operations, finances, intellectual property, technology, legal and regulatory issues, corporate governance or other challenges, for which we may have limited or no prior experience. In addition, if we fail to timely establish or maintain relationships with significant retailers and suppliers, we may not be able to provide our consumers with desirable new products and services. Further, in order to develop and commercialize certain new products and services, we will need to create new kiosks or enhance the capabilities of our DVD and coin-counting kiosks, as well as adapt our related networks and systems through appropriate technological solutions, and establish market acceptance of such products or services. We cannot assure you that new products or services that we provide will be successful or profitable. Defects, failures or security breaches in and inadequate upgrades of, or changes to, our operating systems could harm our business. The operation of our business depends on sophisticated software, hardware, computer networking and communication services that may contain undetected errors or may be subject to failures or complications. These errors, failures or complications may arise particularly when new, changed or enhanced products or services are added. In the past, there have been limited delays and disruptions resulting from upgrading or improving these operating systems. Future upgrades, improvements or changes that may be necessary to expand and maintain our business could result in delays or disruptions or may not be timely or appropriately made, any of which could seriously harm our operations. Further, certain aspects of the operating systems relating to our business are provided by third parties, including telecommunications. Accordingly, the effectiveness of these operating systems is, to a certain degree, dependent on the actions and decisions of third parties over whom we may have limited control. Failure to adequately comply with information security policies or to safeguard against breaches of such policies could adversely affect our operations and could damage our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. As our business expands to provide new products and services, such as Redbox Instant by Verizon, Redbox Tickets, and Coin-to-Commerce, we are increasing the amount of consumer data that we collect, transfer and retain as part of our business. These activities are subject to laws and regulations, as well as industry standards, in the United States and other jurisdictions in which our products and services are available. These requirements, which often differ materially and sometimes conflict among the many jurisdictions in which we operate, are designed to protect the privacy of consumers’ personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. We maintain and review technical and operational safeguards designed to protect this information and generally require third party vendors and others with whom we work to do so as well. However, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies, third-party agents or others could improperly access relevant systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, or that we may be determined not to be in compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards for data security, such as the Payment Card Industry guidelines. A breach or purported breach of relevant security policies that compromises consumer data or determination of non-compliance with applicable legal requirements or industry standards for data security could expose us to regulatory enforcement actions, card association or other monetary fines or sanctions, or contractual liabilities, limit our ability to provide our products and services, subject us to legal action and related costs and damage our business reputation, financial position, and results of operations. Litigation, arbitration, mediation, regulatory actions, investigations or other legal proceedings could result in material rulings, decisions, settlements, fines, penalties or publicity that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, party to class actions, regulatory actions, investigations, arbitration, mediation and other legal proceedings. The outcome of such proceedings is often difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs, regulatory bodies or other parties may seek very large or indeterminate 7 Table of Contents amounts of money from us or substantial restrictions on our business activities, and the results, including the magnitude, of lawsuits, actions, settlements, decisions and investigations may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend, settle or otherwise finalize lawsuits, regulatory actions, investigations, arbitrations, mediations or other legal proceedings may be significant and such proceedings may divert management’s time. For example, in recent years we have been involved in consumer class action lawsuits, a securities class action and derivative lawsuit, and studio litigation, as well as other litigation in the ordinary course of business. In addition, there may be adverse publicity associated with any such developments that could decrease consumer acceptance of our products and services. As a result, litigation, arbitration, mediation, regulatory actions or investigations involving us or our affiliates may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to substantial federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulation specific to our business. Our business is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulation, including those relating to copyright law, access to kiosks in public places, consumer privacy and protection, data protection and information security, taxes, vehicle safety, charitable fundraising, the transfer of money or things of value, coins, currency controls, weights and measures, payment cards and other payment instruments, food and beverages, sweepstakes, and contests. The application of existing laws and regulations, changes in laws or enactment of new laws and regulations, that apply, or may in the future apply, to our current or future products or services, changes in governmental authorities’ interpretation of the application of various government regulations to our business, or the failure or inability to gain and retain required permits and approvals could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, if U.S. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the First Sale Doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. Under U.S. copyright law, the First Sale Doctrine provides that once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. While the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once sold. As such, once we purchase a DVD in the market, we are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. Although the majority of our content library is licensed directly from studios, and not purchased, if Congress or the courts were to change, or substantially limit, this First Sale Doctrine, our ability to obtain certain purchased content and then rent it could be adversely affected. In addition, many jurisdictions require us to obtain certain licenses in connection with the operations of our businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be granted all necessary licenses or permits in the future, that current licenses or permits will be renewed or that regulators will not revoke current licenses or permits. Given the unique nature of our business and new products and services we may develop or acquire in the future, the application of various laws and regulations to our business is uncertain. Further, as governmental and regulatory scrutiny and action with regard to many aspects of our business increase, we expect that our costs of complying with the applicable legal requirements may increase, perhaps substantially. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or permits, loss of approved status, termination of contracts, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events, as well as the increased cost of compliance, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced substantial growth in our business, particularly due to the rapid expansion of Redbox. Although we believe that the total addressable market for DVD kiosks is large, we cannot be certain about its 8 Table of Contents size, the most effective plan for locating kiosks, or the optimum market density. Because the DVD kiosk market and our business model for Redbox is continually evolving, we have incomplete data and track records for predicting kiosk and market performance in future periods. As a result, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we may, among other things, over-install kiosks in certain geographic areas leading to non-accretive installations, and we cannot be certain that historical revenue ramps for new kiosks will be sustainable in the future. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our operational, financial and administrative infrastructure and our management. As our operations have grown in size, scope and complexity, we have focused on integrating, as appropriate, and improving and upgrading our systems and infrastructure, both those relating to providing attractive and efficient consumer products and services and those relating to our administration and internal systems, processes and controls. For example, management has had to adapt to and provide for oversight of a more decentralized organization as Redbox’s operations have remained primarily in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois, while Coinstar’s corporate headquarters and Coin operations have remained in Bellevue, Washington. This integration and expansion of our administration, processes, systems and infrastructure have required us to commit and will continue to cause us to commit, substantial financial, operational and technical resources to managing our business. Further, our growth could strain our ability to provide popular and reliable product and service levels, including for our New Ventures, for our consumers, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls in a timely and efficient manner, enhance our reporting systems and processes as may be required, and recruit, train and retain highly-skilled personnel. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management and operational resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization, including otherwise effectively growing our business lines, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Acquisitions and investments involve risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from such acquisitions and investments. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business. For example, in 2012, Redbox acquired certain assets of NCR Corporation related to its self-service DVD kiosk business and also entered into a joint venture arrangement to launch Redbox Instant by Verizon, a nationwide “over-the-top” video distribution service that also offers rental of physical DVDs and Blu-ray Discs from our kiosks. However, we may be unable to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by such acquisitions or investments and may not successfully integrate these acquisitions or investments, which could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of the acquisitions and investments. In addition, we may not have the right or power to direct the management or policies of companies we have invested in. For example, Redbox Instant by Verizon may take action contrary to our interests, although we may nonetheless be called to invest additional sums. Further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions and investments, as well as the integration of acquired businesses, divert management time and other resources. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any particular transaction, even if successfully completed, will ultimately benefit our business. Certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions and investments that may have a material impact on our business are: • the assumption of known and unknown liabilities of an acquired company, including employee and intellectual property claims and other violations of applicable law; • losses related to acquisitions and investments; • managing relationships with other investors and the companies in which we have made investments, including, in some cases, as minority partner; 9 Table of Contents • reduced liquidity, including through the use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions and investments; • entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience, such as the digital market through our joint venture, Redbox Instant by Verizon; • impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets arising from our arrangements and investments; • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems or personnel of an acquired company, acquired assets or joint ventures; • inability to efficiently divest unsuccessful acquisitions and investments; • stockholder dilution if an acquisition is consummated through an issuance of our securities; • imposition of restrictive covenants and increased debt service obligations that provide us less flexibility in how we operate our business to the extent we borrow to finance an acquisition or investment; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; • costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on potential targets and negotiating agreements that may or may not be successful, including payment of break-up fees if transactions are not closed; • impairment of relationships with employees, retailers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business; We have indebtedness, which may limit our ability to obtain future financings and may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. As of December 31, 2012, $159.7 million and $172.8 million was reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as the outstanding principal balance of our term loan and revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) and our 4.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the “Notes”), respectively. We may generally prepay amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility without premium or penalty (other than LIBOR breakage costs). The Credit Facility bears interest at variable rates determined by prevailing interest rates and our leverage ratio. As a result, our costs of borrowing are exposed to risks of fluctuations in interest rates, as well as our financial condition and operating results, which affect our leverage ratio. Loans made pursuant to the Credit Facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of a substantial portion of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. This Credit Facility may limit our ability to obtain future financings and may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. If we have substantial financial leverage, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service the indebtedness, or to adequately fund our operations. Moreover, the Credit Facility contains negative covenants and restrictions relating to such things as certain stock repurchases, liens, investments, capital expenditures, other indebtedness, payments of dividends, and fundamental changes and dispositions of our assets that could impair our flexibility to pursue growth opportunities. In addition, the Credit Facility requires that we meet certain financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, all as defined in the Credit Facility. If the financial covenants are not met or any other event of default occurs under the Credit Facility, our lenders would be entitled to declare our indebtedness immediately due and payable and exercise other remedies. We may not have the ability to pay interest on our Notes, to repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change or to settle conversions of the Notes, as may be required. The $185.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our Notes bear interest semi-annually, payable March 1 and September 1 of each year. If a fundamental change occurs under the indenture governing the Notes, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their Notes. In addition, upon satisfaction of 10 Table of Contents certain conversion conditions (including conditions outside of our control, such as market price or trading price) and proper conversion of the Notes by a holder, we will be required to make cash payments of up to $1,000 for each $1,000 in principal amount of such Notes (as well as deliver shares of our common stock if applicable). For example, at June 30, 2012, our Notes became convertible in and for the third quarter of 2012 at the option of each holder because the closing sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the second quarter of 2012 exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price. Depending on the amount and timing of the payment requirements, we may not have been able to meet all of the obligations relating to Note conversions, which could have had a material adverse effect. In addition, our Credit Facility prohibits us from making any cash payments due upon the repurchase or conversion of the Notes if (i) an event of default then exists or would result from the relevant payment under that facility or (ii) after giving effect to the relevant cash payment, we would not be in pro forma compliance with our consolidated leverage ratio test specified in that facility. Any agreements or indebtedness we enter into or incur in the future may further restrict our ability to pay interest on, carry out the fundamental change repurchase obligations relating to, or make payments (including cash) upon conversion of, the Notes. Further, if we fail to pay interest on, carry out the fundamental change repurchase obligations relating to, or make payments (including cash) upon conversion of, the Notes, we will be in default under the indenture governing the Notes. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness, including our Credit Facility. If the repayment of indebtedness were to be accelerated, including after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not, among other things, have sufficient funds to repay indebtedness or pay interest on, carry out our repurchase obligations relating to, or make cash payments upon conversion of, the Notes. Conversion of our convertible notes into common stock could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Upon satisfaction of certain conversion conditions (including conditions outside of our control, such as market price or trading price) and proper conversion of the Notes by a holder, we may be required to deliver shares of our common stock to a converting holder. For each $1,000 principal amount of Notes converted, a holder receives an amount in cash equal to $1,000, and, if the conversion value (as determined by the terms of the indenture) exceeds $1,000, the holder will also receive a number of shares of our common stock based on the excess conversion value. The number of shares of common stock potentially to be issued upon conversion of the Notes increases as the market price of our common stock increases during the conversion value measurement period. If additional shares of our common stock are issued due to conversion of some or all of the outstanding Notes, the ownership interests of existing stockholders would be diluted. Further, any sales in the public market of any shares of common stock issued upon conversion or hedging or arbitrage trading activity that develops due to the potential conversion of the Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Competitive pressures could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Redbox business faces competition from many other providers, including those using other distribution channels, having more experience, greater or more appealing inventory, better financing, and better relationships with those in the movie and video game industries, than we have, including: • mail-delivery and online retailers, like Netflix or Amazon; • cable, satellite, and telecommunications providers, like Comcast or DISH Network; • traditional movie programmers, like HBO or Showtime; • other forms of movie content providers like Internet sites including iTunes, YouTube, Hulu or Google; • traditional brick and mortar video retailers, and other DVD kiosk businesses; 11 Table of Contents • other retailers like Walmart and other chain stores selling DVDs and video games; • other forms of video game rental providers, like GameFly; • other ticket distributors, like TicketMaster; • noncommercial sources like libraries; and; • general competition from other forms of entertainment such as movie theaters, television and sporting events. Our Coin business faces competition from supermarkets, banks and other companies that purchase and operate coin-counting equipment from companies such as ScanCoin, Cummins-Allison Corporation and others. Our retailers may choose to replace our coin-counting kiosks with competitor machines and operate such kiosks themselves or through a third party, or not carry coin-counting kiosks at all deciding that floor space could be used for other purposes. In addition, retailers, some of which have significantly more resources than we do, may decide to enter the coin-counting market. Some banks and other competitors already provide coin-counting free of charge or for an amount that yields very low margins or that may not generate a profit at all. An expansion of the coin-counting services provided or a reduction in related fees charged by any of these competitors or retailer decisions to use floor space for other than coin-counting, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the nature and extent of consolidations and bankruptcies, which often occur during or as a result of economic downturns, in markets where we install our kiosks, particularly the supermarket and other retailing industries, could adversely affect our operations, including our competitive position, as the number of installations and potential retail users of our kiosks could be significantly reduced. See the risk factor below entitled, “—Events outside of our control, including the current economic environment, has negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, consumers’ use of our products and services.” Our business can be adversely affected by severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, power failures, telecommunication loss and terrorist attacks. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. For example, our corporate headquarters and certain critical business operations are located in the Bellevue, Washington area, which is near major earthquake faults. While we have taken steps to protect the security of critical business processes and systems and have established certain back-up systems and disaster recovery procedures, any disruptions, whether due to inadequate back-up or disaster recovery planning, failures of information technology systems, interruptions in the communications network, or other factors, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operational and financial performance is a direct reflection of consumer use of and the ability to operate and service our kiosks used in our business. Severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can, for extended periods of time, significantly reduce consumer use of our products and services as well as interrupt the ability of our employees and third-party providers to operate and service our kiosks. For example, in October 2012, Hurricane Sandy caused disruptions to our normal operations in the impacted region for an extended period of time. In some cases, severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control may result in extensive damage to, or destruction of, our infrastructure and equipment, including loss of kiosks used to provide our products and services, which losses may not be fully covered by insurance. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money, and, as a result, our business is particularly dependent on our ability to process and settle transactions accurately and efficiently. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money. Our Coin business requires the effective transfer of large sums of money between many different locations. Because we are responsible for large sums of money that often are substantially greater than the revenues generated, the success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient, secure, and error-free handling of the money. We rely on the ability of our employees and our 12 Table of Contents operating systems and network to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event, security breach, improper operation or any other event impacting our systems or network or our vendors’ systems or processes, or improper or other actions taken by employees, or third party vendors, we could suffer financial loss, loss of consumers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. Our failure to meet consumer expectations with respect to pricing our products and services may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services may be sensitive to pricing changes. We evaluate and update our pricing strategies from time to time, and changes we institute may have a significant impact on, among other things, our revenue and net income. For example, in March 2010, we increased the typical coin-counting transaction fee from 8.9% to 9.8%, and, in October 2011, we increased the daily rental fee for standard definition DVDs from $1.00 to $1.20. In the future, other fee increases or pricing changes may deter consumers from using our kiosks or reduce the frequency of their usage. The loss of key personnel or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. In recent years, we have experienced significant changes in our senior management team, including our CEO and CFO succession plan announced in January 2013. Further changes in senior management could result in disruptions to our operations. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise leaves or competes with us, it could harm our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Additionally, if we are unable to timely hire qualified replacements for our executive and other key positions, our ability to execute our business plan could be harmed. Even if we can timely hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or enforce our patents and other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through a combination of patents, licenses and other intellectual property arrangements, without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have over 100 United States and international patents, for example, patents regarding kiosk security and inventory management related to our Redbox business, and patents regarding kiosk networking, fraud avoidance and voucher authentication related to our Coin business. We also have additional patents and patent applications pending in the United States and several foreign jurisdictions related to our New Venture kiosk technologies. In addition, we may apply for or obtain (through development, acquisition or otherwise) additional patents regarding technologies used in our businesses. Our patents may not be held valid if challenged, our patent applications may not be issued, and other parties may claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. Since many patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until 18 months after the patent has been applied for, others may have filed applications, which, if issued as patents, could cover our products or technology. Patents issued to us may be circumvented or fail to provide adequate protection of our technologies. Our competitors might independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. Further, since patent terms are limited, other parties may begin practicing our patented technologies when our related patents expire. For example, certain United States patent rights based on an early patent application primarily relating to our coin-counting business expired in September 2012 and a patent relating to Redbox’s “Rent and Return Anywhere” feature expired in June 2010. In addition, certain parties may assert claims of patent infringement or misappropriation against us based on current or pending United States or foreign patents, copyrights or trade secrets, or contracts. If such claims were successful, our business could be harmed. Defending ourselves, our retailers or other third parties against these types of claims, regardless of their merits, could require us to incur substantial costs and divert the attention of 13 Table of Contents key personnel. Parties making these types of claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block or impair our ability to provide our DVD or coin-counting products and services or other new products and services in the United States or abroad. Such claims could also result in an award of substantial damages. If third parties have, or obtain, proprietary rights that our products or services infringe, we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from others at a reasonable cost or at all. In addition, if we instigate litigation to enforce our patents or protect our other proprietary rights, or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, such litigation could cause us to spend significant financial and management resources. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we protect our intellectual property in part by confidentiality and other agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and corporate partners, these parties may breach these agreements. We may have inadequate remedies for any such breach and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be discovered independently by our competitors. The failure to protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others, as well as unfavorable rulings or settlements, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract new retailers, broaden current retailer relationships, and penetrate new markets and distribution channels. In order to increase our Redbox, coin-counting and other kiosk installations, we need to attract new retailers, broaden relationships with current retailers, and develop operational efficiencies that make it feasible for us to penetrate lower density markets or new distribution channels, such as coin-counting kiosks in banks and credit unions. We may be unable to attract retailers or drive down costs relating to the manufacture, installation or servicing of our kiosks to levels that would enable us to operate profitably in lower density markets or penetrate new distribution channels. If we are unable to do so, our future financial performance could be adversely affected. Payment of increased fees to retailers or other third party service providers could negatively affect our business results. We face ongoing pricing pressure from our retailers to increase the service fees we pay to them on our products and services or to make other financial concessions to win or retain their business. If we are unable to respond effectively to ongoing pricing-related pressures, we may fail to win or retain certain accounts. Our fee arrangements are based on our evaluation of unique factors with each retailer, such as total revenue, long-term, non-cancelable contracts, installation of our kiosks in high-traffic, geographic locations and new product and service commitments. Together with other factors, an increase in service fees paid, or other financial concessions made, to our retailers could significantly increase our direct operating expenses in future periods and harm our business. In addition, we accept payment for DVD and game rentals through debit and credit card transactions. For these payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which have increased and may increase further over time. Further, because Redbox processes millions of small dollar amount transactions, and interchange fees represent a larger percentage of card processing costs compared to a typical retailer, we are relatively more susceptible to any fee increase. When interchange or other fees increase, it generally raises our operating costs and lowers our profit margins or requires that we charge our customers more for our products and services. Events outside of our control, including the current economic environment, have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, consumers’ use of our products and services. Our consumers’ use of many of our products and services is dependent on discretionary spending, which is affected by, among other things, economic and political conditions, consumer confidence, interest and tax rates, and financial and housing markets. With economic uncertainty still affecting potential consumers, we may be impacted by more conservative purchasing tendencies with fewer non-essential products and services purchases during the coming periods if the current economic environment continues. In addition, because our business relies in part on consumers initially visiting retailers to purchase products and services that are not necessarily our products and services, if consumers are visiting retailers less frequently and being more careful with their money when they do, these tendencies may also negatively impact our business. 14 Table of Contents Further, our ability to obtain additional funding in the future, if and as needed, through equity issuances or loans, or otherwise meet our current obligations to third parties, could be adversely affected if the economic environment continues to be difficult. In addition, the ability of third parties to honor their obligations to us could be negatively impacted, as retailers, suppliers and other parties deal with the difficult economic environment. Finally, there may be consequences that will ultimately result from the current economic conditions that are not yet known, and any one or more of these unknown consequences (as well as those currently being experienced) could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and liquidity, as well as our business generally. Our future operating results may fluctuate. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to continue to drive new and repeat use of our Redbox and Coin kiosks, our ability to develop and commercialize new products and services, including through New Ventures, and the costs incurred to do so, and our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and other third-party relationships) into our operations. Our operating results have a history of fluctuating and may continue to fluctuate based upon many factors, including: • fluctuations in revenue generated by our Redbox and Coin businesses; • fluctuations in operating expenses, such as the amortization of our content library, and transaction fees and commissions we pay to our retailers; • our ability to establish or maintain effective relationships with significant partners, retailers and suppliers on acceptable terms, including partners with whom we are jointly managing a business of which we are a minority owner (such as our joint venture, Redbox Instant by Verizon); • the amount of service fees that we pay to our retailers; • the transaction fees we charge consumers to use our services; • fluctuations in consumer rental patterns, including the number of movies rented per visit, the type of DVDs they want to rent and for how long, and the level of DVD migration between kiosks; • the successful operation of our network; • the commercial success of our retailers, which could be affected by such factors as general economic conditions, severe weather or strikes; • the successful use and integration of assets and businesses acquired or invested in, including those acquired from NCR; • the level of product and price competition; • fluctuations in interest rates, which affects our debt service obligations; • the timing and cost of, and our ability to develop and successfully commercialize, new or enhanced products and services, including potential offerings made through joint ventures; • activities of, and acquisitions or announcements by, competitors; and; • the impact from any impairment of inventory, goodwill, fixed assets or intangibles related to our acquisitions and divestitures. We have historically experienced seasonality in our revenue from our Redbox segment. December and the summer months have historically been high rental months, while September and October have been low rental months, due, in part, to the beginning of the school year and the introduction of the new fall television season. However, we have entered into licensing agreements with certain studios that contain delayed rental windows. This has shifted the availability of certain titles relative to historic patterns, most notably certain titles have shifted from the fourth quarter holiday season into the first quarter of the following year. Despite this shift, we believe the fourth quarter will remain our highest revenue quarter, consistent with our historical experience. 15 Table of Contents Seasonal affects, however, may be minimized by the actual release slate and the relative attractiveness of movie titles in a particular quarter or year. Our Coin segment generally experiences its highest revenue in the second half of the year due to increased retailer foot traffic and holiday shopping in the fourth quarter and an increase in consumers’ desire for disposable income in the summer months. We depend upon third-party manufacturers, suppliers and service providers for key components and substantial support for our kiosks. We conduct limited manufacturing operations and depend on outside parties to manufacture key components of our kiosks. We intend to continue to expand our installed base of kiosks. Such expansion may be limited by the manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner. If there is an unanticipated increase in demand for our kiosks or our manufacturing needs are not met in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may be unable to meet demand due to manufacturing limitations. Some key hardware components used in our kiosks are obtained from a limited number of suppliers. We may be unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of these components from our suppliers in a timely manner or, if necessary, from alternative sources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of components from our current suppliers or locate alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, we may experience delays in installing or maintaining our kiosks, either of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers for substantial support and service efforts that we currently do not provide directly. In particular, we contract with third-party providers to arrange for pick-up, processing and depositing of coins, as well as to provide limited servicing of our kiosks. We generally contract with a single transportation provider and coin processor to service a particular region. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the foreseeable future, the internal capability to provide back-up coin processing service in the event of a sudden disruption in service from a commercial coin processor. Any failure by us to maintain our existing coin processing relationships or to establish new relationships on a timely basis or on acceptable terms could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with conducting our business and sourcing goods internationally. We currently have Redbox operations in Canada and Coin operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland. We expect to continue our deployment of kiosks internationally. Accordingly, political uncertainties, economic changes, exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, adverse changes in legal requirements, including tax, tariff and trade regulations, difficulties with foreign distributors and other difficulties in managing an organization outside the United States, could seriously harm the development of our business and ability to operate profitably. Further, as we do more business in an increasing number of countries, our business becomes more exposed to the impact of the political and economic uncertainties, including government oversight, of foreign jurisdictions. We purchase products from vendors that obtain a significant percentage of such products from foreign manufacturers. As a result, we are subject to changes in governmental policies, exchange rate fluctuations, various product quality standards, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls, transportation delays and interruptions and political and economic disruptions which could disrupt the supply and timely delivery of products manufactured abroad. In addition, we could be affected by labor strikes in the sea shipping, trucking and railroad industries. A reduction or interruption in supplies, or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering in July 1997. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2012, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $40.50 to $71.82 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the termination, non-renewal or re-negotiation of one or more retailer, supplier, distributor, or other third-party relationships; • trends and fluctuations in the use of our Redbox and Coin businesses; • operating results below market expectations and changes in, or our failure to meet, financial estimates of securities analysts or our own guidance; • acquisition, merger, investment and disposition activities; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements regarding the establishment, modification or termination of relationships regarding the development of new or enhanced products and services; • release of analyst reports; • the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; • economic or other external factors, for example, those relating to the current economic environment and fluctuations in the trading price of stocks generally; • ineffective internal controls; and; • industry developments. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also seriously harm the market price of our common stock. Our anti-takeover mechanisms may affect the price of our common stock and make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and depress the market price of our stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any acquirer of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, Washington law may impose additional restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any acquirer of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if the offer from a third party may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 