Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors that may affect our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. The termination, non-renewal or renegotiation on materially adverse terms of our contracts with one or more of our significant retailers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to maintain contractual relationships with our retailers in profitable locations. Our typical coin contract term ranges from one to three years and automatically renews until we or the retailer gives notice of termination. DVD contracts typically range from three to five years. Certain contract provisions with our retailers vary, including product and service offerings, the service fees we are committed to pay each retailer, frequency of service, and the ability to cancel the contract upon notice after a certain period of time. We strive to provide direct and indirect benefits to our retailers that are superior to or competitive with other providers or systems or alternative uses of the floor space that our machines occupy. If we are unable to provide our retailers with adequate benefits, we may be unable to maintain or renew our contractual relationships on acceptable terms causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We do a substantial amount of our business with certain retailers. For example, we have significant relationships with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Walgreen Co., and McDonald’s USA, LLC, which accounted for approximately 20%, 11% and 9% of our consolidated revenue, respectively, for the year ended 2009. Our coin and DVD relationship with Walmart is governed by contracts that provide either Coinstar or Walmart the right to terminate the contracts in their entirety, or as to any store serviced by the contracts, with or without cause, on 90 days’ notice. In addition, McDonald’s USA has the right to terminate its contract with us with respect to all of our DVD kiosks in a particular geographic market, with or without cause, on 90 days’ notice, in which event we have the option to repurchase our kiosks on specified terms. Cancellation, adverse renegotiation of or other changes to these relationships could seriously harm our business and reputation. There are many risks related to our DVD services business that may negatively impact our business. The home video industry is highly competitive with many factors affecting our ability to profitably manage our DVD services business. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, substantially to establish our nationwide infrastructure of DVD rental kiosks. The home video distribution market is rapidly evolving as new technologies and distribution channels are being developed to compete for market share. There is no assurance that the DVD rental kiosk channel will maintain or achieve additional market share over the long-term, and if it does not, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Some of the risks that could negatively impact our participation in this industry include: • Competition from other providers, including those using other distribution channels, having more experience, greater or more appealing inventory, better financing, and better relationships with those in the movie industry, than we have, including: • traditional video retailers, like Blockbuster and other local and regional video stores, and other DVD kiosk businesses, like NCR; 5 Table of Contents • mail-delivery and online retailers like Netflix or Amazon; • other retailers like Walmart and other chain stores selling DVDs; • pay-per-view/cable/satellite and similar movie content providers like Comcast or HBO; • other forms of movie content providers like Internet sites including iTunes, YouTube, Hulu or Google; • noncommercial sources like libraries; and • general competition from other forms of entertainment such as movie theaters, television, sporting events and video gaming. • Changes in consumer content delivery preferences, including DVDs with higher picture/sound quality (e.g., Blu-ray), disposable or download-to-burn DVDs, more use of personal video recorders (e.g., TiVo), pay-per-view/cable/satellite and similar technologies, computer downloads, online streaming, portable devices (e.g., iPhones), and other mediums, and less demand for high volume of new movie content due to such things as larger home DVD and downloaded movie libraries. • Increased availability of movie content inventory through personal video recorders, pay-per-view/cable/satellite and similar technologies, computer downloads, online streaming, portable devices, and other mediums. • Decreased quantity and quality of movie content availability for DVD distribution due to general-industry-related factors, including financial disruptions, labor conflicts (e.g., actor/writer strikes) or movie content failing to appeal to consumers’ tastes. • The risks described below in “—Our inability to receive delivery of DVDs on the date of their initial release to the general public, or shortly thereafter, for home entertainment viewing could adversely affect our DVD services business” and “—If we do not manage our DVD inventory effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.” • Decreased costs related to purchasing or receipt of movie content, including less expensive DVDs, more aggressive competitor pricing strategies and piracy, and cheaper use of pay-per-view/cable/satellite, download and similar technologies. Adverse developments relating to any of these risks, as well as others relating to our participation in the home video industry, could significantly affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our inability to receive delivery of DVDs on the date of their initial release to the general public, or shortly thereafter, for home entertainment viewing could adversely affect our DVD services business. Traditionally, businesses that rent movies in physical formats such as DVDs have enjoyed a competitive advantage over other movie distribution rental channels because of earlier timing of the distribution window for physical formats by movie studios. After the initial theatrical release of a movie, the major studios generally have made their movies available on physical formats for a 30- to 45-day release window before release to other movie distribution rental channels, such as pay-per view, video-on-demand, premium television, basic cable, and network and syndicated television. Increasingly, however, major studios have experimented with compressing the window between DVD and video-on-demand release or with releasing movies in each channel simultaneously. Additionally, in some cases, major studios have staggered releases of DVDs such that a movie might be less available for rental until as much as 28 days after the DVD becomes available for purchase at a retail outlet. However, certain movie studios have changed or are changing and other movie studios could change their practices, including shortening or discontinuing altogether, or otherwise restricting, movie distribution windows, 6 Table of Contents including simultaneous video-on-demand/computer downloads/online streaming and DVD releases or making video-on-demand/computer downloads/online streaming available prior to DVD release. For example, there have been recent announcements that certain movie studios have made new release titles available on video-on-demand or for online purchase on the same date as the DVD release. Further, certain studios have implemented or announced their intention to implement policies to lengthen the time that certain video retailers, including those providing movies on physical formats, must wait before renting movies following their initial release on DVD to retailers. For example, our Redbox subsidiary has entered into an arrangement with Warner Home Video that includes a delayed rental window. Our Redbox subsidiary, however, also has separate complaints filed in federal court against Universal Studios Home Entertainment and 20th Century Fox in response to distribution terms implemented or proposed by these respective studios that would prohibit us from renting DVD titles released by the movie studios until 30 to 45 days following release of a title for sale on DVD format. Under Universal Studios’ policy, Redbox would be required to wait at least 45 days following the initial DVD release before making certain movie titles available and potentially in non-advantageous quantities, and 20th Century Fox has also limited distribution of DVDs to Redbox subject to similar policies. Policies of studios, and our inability to reach a compromise related to distribution terms on favorable terms, may negatively impact our business because in those situations we must try to obtain DVD titles from alternative sources often at a higher cost and often not in advantageous quantities, which may negatively impact the margins in our DVD services business. Accordingly, if additional movie studios that make up a significant source of the DVD titles that we distribute implement such policies, such impact could be heightened. If we are not able to achieve an acceptable outcome or reach an appropriate settlement with applicable movie studios seeking to delay or otherwise restrict the availability of our access to DVD titles following their initial release date, we will be forced to seek alternative sources for DVD releases. Obtaining DVDs from such sources may result in higher costs to us, or we may not be able to obtain such DVDs in appropriate quantities if at all, which would negatively affect our DVD services business. For example, certain third-party retailers have limited, and in some cases restricted, the sales of new release DVDs to Redbox. Such limitations and restrictions may result in the reduction or overall unavailability of certain DVD titles, result in higher product costs, negatively impact our margins or negatively affect our negotiating position with other third-party retailers and studios. Additionally, entering into studio licensing arrangements that contain a delayed rental window may decrease consumer satisfaction and consumer demand, and we may lose consumers to our competitors that offer DVD titles without a delayed rental window. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not manage our DVD inventory effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A critical element of our DVD services business model is to optimize our inventory of DVD titles and copy depth to achieve satisfactory availability rates to meet consumer demand while also maximizing margins. If we do not timely acquire sufficient DVD titles, due to, for example, not correctly anticipating demand, intentionally acquiring fewer copies than needed to fully satisfy demand or the lack of available titles, we may not appropriately satisfy consumer demand, which could decrease consumer satisfaction and we could lose consumers to competitors. Conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire a larger number of copies to achieve higher availability rates for select titles or a wider range of titles, our inventory utilization would become less efficient and our margins for DVD services would be adversely affected. Our ability to accurately predict consumer demand as well as market factors, such as our ability to obtain satisfactory distribution arrangements, may impact our ability to timely acquire appropriate quantities of certain DVD titles. In addition, if we are unable to obtain or maintain favorable terms from our suppliers with respect to such matters as timely movie access, copy depth and product returns, among others, or if the price of DVDs increases or decreases generally or for certain titles, our inventories may become unbalanced and our margins may be adversely affected. Further, a delay in our ability to rent certain studios’ DVD titles pursuant to a delayed rental window may negatively affect consumer satisfaction and demand, and we could lose consumers to our competitors because of the timing of our inventory. In addition, if we are unable to comply with or lack the necessary internal controls to ensure appropriate documentation and tracking of DVD inventory, we may, among other things, violate certain of our 7 Table of Contents studio licensing arrangements, be forced to pay a fee for unaccounted for DVDs and be susceptible to risks to theft and misuse of property, any of which may negatively affect our margins in the DVD services business. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we have entered into licensing agreements with Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, Lions Gate Films and Paramount Home Entertainment under which we agreed to license minimum quantities of theatrical and direct-to-video DVDs for rental at our kiosks. Under these agreements, the studios agreed to provide delivery of their DVDs by the “street date,” the first date on which the DVD releases are available to the general public for home entertainment purposes on a rental basis (and in the case of Paramount Home Entertainment, on either a rental or sell-through basis). These agreements may be effective for up to five years (through the end of 2014, and in the case of Paramount Home Entertainment, the agreement terminates June 2010, unless earlier extended at Paramount’s option), but each of the movie studios have options to terminate the agreements in the second half of 2011 pursuant to the terms of the respective agreements. In addition, we have a licensing arrangement with Warner Home Video that makes DVDs available for rental 28 days after the street date (whether on a rental or sell-through basis). Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if these agreements do not provide the expected benefits to us. For example, if the titles or format provided are not attractive to our consumers, we will be required to purchase too many copies of undesirable titles or an undesirable format, possibly in substantial amounts, which could adversely affect our DVD services business by decreasing consumer demand for offered DVD titles and consumer satisfaction with our services or negatively impacting margins. If studios that do not have a delayed rental window elect to delay the general release of DVDs to the rental market for significant periods after they are released for retail sales, demand for rental of these titles may be adversely affected. If consumers chose to rent these DVD titles from our competitors, purchase the DVD titles rather than rent from us, or find our DVD title selection unbalanced or unappealing, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have incurred and may incur additional non-cash increases to operating expenses amortized over the terms of any such arrangements that also could have a dilutive impact on our stockholders, such as the issuance of equity under certain of our studio contracts or to the extent we enter into similar arrangements with other movie studios in the future. Further, if some or all of these agreements prove beneficial but are early terminated, we could be negatively impacted. Moreover, if we cannot enter into similar arrangements in the future with these or other studios or distributors, or these arrangements do not provide the expected benefits to us, our business could suffer. If our sell-back prices to distributors continue to decrease or we are restricted from selling DVDs at all, or if there is an increase in consumer demand for titles or formats that are more expensive for us to acquire, our margins in the DVD services business could be adversely affected. Margins in our DVD services business are influenced in part by our ability to negotiate favorable sell-back terms with certain distributions for DVDs at the end of their rental life. The price at which we can sell back DVDs under these arrangements has declined in recent periods. In addition, we have entered into certain studio licensing arrangements that require the destruction of certain DVD titles at the end of their rental life. If these trends continue, or if we are otherwise restricted from selling our previously-viewed DVDs to our distributors or consumers, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, it is uncertain whether we will be able to negotiate purchase and sell-back prices with certain of our DVD distributors for new physical formats such as Blu-ray discs on acceptable terms and in appropriate quantities that would allow us to be profitable under our current business model. Increased market acceptance of Blu-ray discs could also put downward pressure on our consumers demand as well as the distributors’ sell-back price for standard-definition DVDs. In addition, certain titles cost more for us to acquire, depending on the source from which they are acquired and the terms on which they are acquired. If consumer demand for these titles increases, our content acquisition expenses could increase, and our margins could be adversely affected. Titles released on the new high-definition formats, such as Blu-ray discs, may be more expensive to acquire than titles released on standard-definition formats. The rate of consumer acceptance and adoption of these new formats or services is uncertain. If consumers select the new higher-cost, 8 Table of Contents high-definition formats on a proportional basis more often than standard-definition formats, and if we are unable to negotiate attractive purchase and sell-back prices for both high- and standard-definition formats with our distributors, our actual content acquisition expenses could increase and our margins in the DVD services business could be adversely affected. Litigation, arbitration, mediation, regulatory actions, investigations or other legal proceedings could result in material rulings, decisions, settlements, fines, penalties or publicity that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, party to class actions, regulatory actions, investigations, arbitration, mediation and other legal proceedings. The outcome of such proceedings is often difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs, regulatory bodies or other parties may seek very large or indeterminate amounts of money from us or substantial restrictions on our business activities, and the results, including the magnitude, of lawsuits, actions, settlements, decisions and investigations may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend, settle or otherwise finalize lawsuits, regulatory actions, investigations, arbitrations, mediations or other legal proceedings may be significant and such proceedings may divert management’s time. For example, we have been in dispute with a former supplier, ScanCoin AB (ScanCoin), regarding certain contract rights and obligations as well as ownership of certain of our patents and patent applications related to our coin-counting business. ScanCoin is seeking a declaration of ownership of substantially all of our United States and international patents related to certain aspects of self-service coin-counting, including machine networking, fraud avoidance and voucher authentication, and monetary damages of approximately 56 million Swedish kronor, plus interest (estimated to be approximately $8 million using exchange rates as of December 31, 2009). The arbitration hearing date for this matter has been delayed until August 2010. Coinstar has filed a claim in United States District Court against ScanCoin North America alleging infringement on one of our patents relating to self-service coin machines. In addition, as discussed above in the risk factor entitled, “—Our inability to receive delivery of DVDs on the date of their initial release to the general public, or shortly thereafter, for home entertainment viewing could adversely affect our DVD services business,” our Redbox subsidiary has filed separate actions in federal court against certain movie studios relating to new distribution terms implemented or proposed by such studios that would restrict certain rental and sales practices associated with the DVD releases of those studios. We have incurred and expect to incur significant costs relating to these disputes, and cannot be sure of when they will be resolved, and if resolved, the magnitude of the effects the ultimate resolutions will have on our business, which could be significant. In addition, there may be adverse publicity associated with such developments that could decrease consumer acceptance of our products and services. As a result, litigation, arbitration, mediation, regulatory actions or investigations involving us or our affiliates may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our most extensive business relationship is with Walmart, and changes to this relationship have had and are expected to continue to have material effects on our operations and results. A significant amount of our resources are committed to our relationship with Walmart, including investments in machines and other equipment and management’s time. In late 2007 and early 2008, we and Walmart worked extensively to revise our business arrangements in connection with Walmart’s efforts to reset and optimize its store entrances. As part of these arrangements and in light of the successful completion of our coin and DVD tests in hundreds of Walmart locations, we amended written agreements covering, among other things, the installation and service of coin-counting machines and DVD kiosks. At December 31, 2009, we had over 3,400 coin-counting kiosks installed and over 4,200 DVD kiosks installed in Walmart locations. Although we have had and expect to continue to have a successful relationship with Walmart, changes to this relationship will continue to occur both in the long and short-term, some of which could adversely affect our business. Our relationship with Walmart is governed by contracts that provide either Coinstar or Walmart the right to terminate the contracts in their entirety, or as to any store serviced by the contracts, with or without cause, on 90 days’ notice. Further, because our formal arrangements with Walmart are generally for relatively 9 Table of Contents short periods and do not provide for minimum installation obligations by Walmart, much of our benefit in this relationship will depend on the continued installation of significant numbers of our coin-counting machines and DVD kiosks. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced substantial growth in our business, particularly due to our acquisition and the rapid expansion of our Redbox subsidiary. This growth, including the integration of Redbox, has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our operational, financial and administrative infrastructure and our management. As our operations have grown in size, scope and complexity, we have focused on integrating as appropriate and improving and upgrading our systems and infrastructure, both those relating to providing attractive and efficient consumer products and services and those relating to our administration and internal systems, processes and controls. For example, management has had to adapt to and provide for oversight of a more decentralized organization as Redbox’s operations have remained primarily in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois, while Coinstar’s corporate headquarters and coin operations have remained in Bellevue, Washington. This integration and expansion of our administration, processes, systems and infrastructure have required us to commit and will continue to cause us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources to managing our business. Further, our growth could strain our ability to maintain popular and reliable product and service levels for our consumers, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls in a timely and efficient manner, enhance our reporting systems and processes as may be required, and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. Also, while we believe that the total addressable market for DVD rental kiosks is large, we cannot be certain about its size or the most effective plan for locating kiosks. Because of our limited operating history and because the DVD rental kiosk market and our business model for DVD services is rapidly evolving, we have very limited data and track records for predicting kiosk and market performance in future periods. As a result, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we may, among other things, over-install kiosks in certain geographic areas leading to non-accretive installations. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as we continue to integrate Redbox and otherwise appropriately grow business lines, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, $392.1 million was outstanding under our revolving line of credit and convertible debt. In addition, under the revolving credit facility we may generally prepay amounts borrowed without premium or penalty. The revolving credit facility bears interest at variable rates determined by prevailing interest rates and our leverage ratio. As a result, our costs of borrowing are exposed to risks of fluctuations in interest rates, as well as our financial condition and operating results, which affect our leverage ratio. Loans made pursuant to the revolving credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of a substantial portion of our subsidiaries’ capital stock. This revolving credit facility may limit our ability to obtain future financings or may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. Due to substantial financial leverage, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service the indebtedness, or to adequately fund our operations. Moreover, the revolving credit facility contains negative covenants and restrictions relating to such things as certain stock repurchases, liens, investments, capital expenditures, other indebtedness, payments of dividends, and fundamental changes or dispositions of our assets that could impair our flexibility to pursue growth opportunities. In addition, the revolving credit facility requires that we meet certain financial covenants, 10 Table of Contents including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, all as defined in the revolving credit facility. If the financial covenants are not met or any other event of default occurs under the revolving credit facility, our lenders would be entitled to declare our indebtedness immediately due and payable and exercise other remedies. We may be unable to identify and define product and service trends or anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our strategy is based upon leveraging our core competencies in the automated retail space to provide the consumer with convenience and value and to help retailers drive incremental traffic and revenue. If we cannot execute on our strategy, our business could suffer. To be competitive, we need to develop or otherwise provide new product and service offerings that are accepted by the market and establish third-party relationships necessary to develop and commercialize such product and service offerings. For example, our DVD kiosks must make available on a timely basis a variety of movie titles to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. If we misjudge the market for our products and services or if a contract with a significant retailer is renegotiated, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products, such as DVDs and missed opportunities for sales of other products and services. In addition, if we fail to timely establish or maintain relationships with significant suppliers, we may not be able to provide our consumers with desirable products and services such as various movie titles or formats. Further, in order to develop and commercialize new products and services, we will need to enhance the capabilities of our coin-counting machines and e-payment machines and equipment, as well as our related networks and systems through appropriate technological solutions, and establish market acceptance of such products or services. We cannot assure you that new products or services that we provide will be successful. Our failure to meet consumer expectations with respect to pricing our products may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products may be sensitive to pricing changes. Changes in our pricing strategies may have a significant impact on, among other things, our revenue and net income. For example, we recently announced that our typical coin-counting transaction fee is increasing from 8.9% to 9.8%, however, we do not know how this will affect demand or our financial results. This fee increase or any other pricing changes may deter consumers from using our coin-counting machines or other products or reduce the frequency of their usage. Utilization of our deferred tax assets may be limited and is dependent on future taxable income. As of December 31, 2009, our deferred tax assets included approximately $307.9 million of net operating losses (“NOL”); however, a valuation allowance is recorded against the use of foreign NOLs in the amount of $30.4 million, leaving $277.5 million of NOLs expected to be realized. Deferred tax assets also include $8.8 million of tax credit carryforwards; however a valuation allowance is recorded against the use of general business tax credits in the amount of $0.6 million, leaving $8.2 million expected to be realized. The tax credits consist of $1.5 million of foreign tax credits that expire from the years 2016 to 2019, $2.8 million of general business tax credits that expire from the years 2011 to 2030 and $4.5 million of alternative minimum tax credits that do not expire. If we fail to generate profits in the foreseeable future, our deferred tax assets may not be fully utilized, if at all. Further, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the NOL and tax credit carryforwards before they expire. We will evaluate our ability to utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards in future periods and, in compliance with FASB ASC 740, Accounting for Income Taxes, record any resulting adjustments that may be required to deferred income tax expense. In addition, we will reduce our deferred income tax assets for the benefits of NOL and tax credit carryforwards actually used in future periods and will recognize and record federal and state income tax expense at statutory rates in future periods. If, in the future, we determine, based on our assessment of both positive and negative evidence and objective and subjective evidence, which takes into 11 Table of Contents consideration our forecasted taxable income, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets, we will record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, which would result in a charge to income tax expense. A plan for the utilization of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards may not be successfully implemented or may not result in any increase in shareholder value. A governmental authority could challenge the amount of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards, or tax laws, regulations or interpretations could change, negatively impacting our NOL or tax credit carryforwards. The amount of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards has not been audited or otherwise validated by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). The IRS could challenge the amount of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards, which could significantly reduce our NOL and tax credit carryforwards. Further, revisions in U.S. federal tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof could adversely impair our ability to use the tax benefits associated with NOL and tax credit carryforwards. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), imposes certain limitations on NOL carryforwards in the event of an “ownership change.” Calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382, and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of and transactions in, its securities. Therefore, the calculation of the amount of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards may be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. We recently experienced changes in our senior management team. The loss of key personnel or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. During 2009 and 2010, we experienced significant changes in our senior management team. Further changes in senior management could result in disruptions to our operations. If we lose (including due to the stress of travel between our Redbox subsidiary, in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois and Coinstar headquarters in Bellevue, Washington) or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise leaves or competes with us, it could harm our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Additionally, if we are unable to timely hire qualified replacements for our executive and other key positions, our ability to execute our business plan could be harmed. Even if we can timely hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. Competitive pressures could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our coin-counting services faces competition from supermarkets, banks and other companies that purchase and operate coin-counting equipment from companies such as ScanCoin, Cummins-Allison Corporation and others. Our retailers may choose to replace our coin-counting machines with competitor machines and operate such machines themselves or through a third party, or not carry coin-counting machines at all deciding that floor space could be used for other purposes. In addition, retailers, some of which have significantly more resources than we do, may decide to enter the coin-counting market. Some banks and other competitors already provide coin-counting free of charge or for an amount that yields very low margins or that may not generate a profit at all. An expansion of the coin-counting services provided or a reduction in related fees charged by any of these competitors or retailer decisions to use floor space for other than coin-counting, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our DVD business faces competition from many other providers of movie content, from traditional stores, such as Blockbuster and Hollywood Video, to other self-service kiosks, such as Blockbuster Express, to online or postal providers, such as Netflix, to other movie distribution rental channels, such as pay-per-view, video-on-demand, online streaming, premium television, basic cable, and network and syndicated television, many of whom may be more experienced in the business or have more resources than we do or otherwise compete with us in this segment of our business as described above. 12 Table of Contents Our e-payment services, including our money transfer services, prepaid wireless and long distance accounts, stored value cards, debit cards and payroll services, face competition from a variety of types of providers, including, among others, national distributors of similar cards, other retailers who provide these services themselves, as well as money transfer companies. Many of these providers are more established in selling their e-payment services than we are and many invest more resources in providing such services to consumers, such as InComm in the prepaid wireless and long distance markets, Blackhawk Network in the stored value cards and debit card markets and Western Union in the money transfer market. In addition, in order for us to provide many of our e-payment services, we depend on relationships with third parties, such as national wireless carriers, national supermarket chains and other retailers, money transfer agents and financial institutions. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively market our e-payment services or maintain and establish successful relationships with appropriate third parties or our competitors provide better terms, our e-payment services will not be competitive. Moreover, since we have announced that we are currently considering strategic alternatives for our e-payment and money transfer businesses, competitors may seek to take advantage of this announcement by encouraging retailers and other third parties to either terminate or not renew existing contracts. In addition, the nature and extent of consolidations and bankruptcies, which often occur during or as a result of economic downturns such as the recent crisis, in markets where we install our machines and equipment, particularly the supermarket and other retailing industries, could adversely affect our operations, including our competitive position, as the number of installations and potential retail users of our machines and equipment could be significantly reduced. See the risk factor below entitled, “—Events outside of our control, including the current economic environment, has and could continue to negatively affect consumers’ use of our products and services.” We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our patents and other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through a combination of patents, licenses and other intellectual property arrangements, without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have over 90 United States and international patents related to aspects of self-service coin-counting, including patents regarding machine networking, fraud avoidance and voucher authentication, and an additional 6 United States and international patents related to aspects of our DVD business. We also have additional patents and patent applications pending in the United States and several foreign jurisdictions directed to our coin-counting, DVD and e-payment technologies. In addition, we may apply for or obtain (through development, acquisition or otherwise) additional patents regarding technologies used in our business. Our patents may not be held valid if challenged, our patent applications may not be issued, and other parties may claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. Since many patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until 18 months after the patent has been applied for, others may have filed applications, which, if issued as patents, could cover our products or technology. Patents issued to us may be circumvented or fail to provide adequate protection of our technologies. Our competitors might independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. Further, since patent terms are limited, other parties may begin practicing our patented technologies when our related patents expire. For example, our United States patent rights based on our original patent application primarily relating to our coin-counting business will expire in September 2012 and a patent relating to our subsidiary Redbox’s “Rent and Return Anywhere” feature will expire in June 2010. In addition, certain parties may assert claims of patent infringement or misappropriation against us based on current or pending United States or foreign patents, copyrights or trade secrets, or contracts. If such claims were successful, our business could be harmed. Defending our company and our retailers against these types of claims, regardless of their merits, could require us to incur substantial costs and divert the attention of key personnel. Parties making these types of claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block or impair our ability to provide our coin-counting, DVD or e-payment services, in the United States or abroad. Such claims could also result in an award of substantial damages. If third parties have or obtain 13 Table of Contents proprietary rights that our products infringe, we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from others at a reasonable cost or at all. For example, we have been in dispute with a former supplier, ScanCoin, regarding certain contract rights and obligations as well as ownership of certain of our patents and patent applications related to our coin-counting business as described above. In addition, if we instigate litigation to enforce our patents or protect our other proprietary rights, or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, such litigation could cause us to spend significant financial and management resources. For example, we filed a claim in the federal court against ScanCoin North America alleging that it is infringing on a patent we own related to self-service coin machines. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we protect our intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and corporate partners, these parties may breach these agreements. We may have inadequate remedies for any such breach and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be discovered independently by our competitors. The failure to protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others, as well as unfavorable rulings or settlements, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract new retailers and penetrate new markets and distribution channels. In order to increase our coin-counting and DVD kiosk installations, we need to attract new retailers and develop operational efficiencies that make it feasible for us to penetrate lower density markets or new distribution channels, such as coin-counting machines in banks and credit unions and DVD kiosks in airports. We may be unable to attract new retailers or drive down costs relating to the manufacture, installation or servicing of coin-counting and DVD kiosks to levels that would enable us to operate profitably in lower density markets or penetrate new distribution channels. If we are unable to do so, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Payment of increased service fees to retailers could negatively affect our business results. We face ongoing pricing pressure from our retailers to increase the service fees we pay to them on coin-counting, DVD, money transfer and e-payment products and services or to make other financial concessions to win or retain business. If we are unable to respond effectively to ongoing pricing-related pressures, we may fail to win or retain certain accounts. Our fee arrangements are based on our evaluation of unique factors with each retailer, such as total revenue, e-payment capabilities, long-term non-cancelable contracts, installation of our machines and equipment in high-traffic, urban or rural locations and new product and service commitments. Together with other factors, an increase in service fees paid or other financial concessions made to our retailers could significantly increase our direct operating expenses in future periods and harm our business. Events outside of our control, including the current economic environment, has and could continue to negatively affect consumers’ use of our products and services. Our consumers’ use of many of our products and services is dependent on discretionary spending, which is affected by, among other things, economic and political conditions, consumer confidence, interest and tax rates, and financial and housing markets. With increased economic pressures recently affecting more and more of our potential consumers, we have been negatively impacted by more conservative purchasing tendencies over the last year and expect that fewer non-essential products and services will be purchased during the coming periods if the current economic environment continues. In addition, because our business relies in part on consumers initially visiting retailers to purchase products and services that are not necessarily our products and services, the fact that people are generally visiting retailers less frequently and being more careful with their money when they do, is also negatively impacting our business. Further, our ability to obtain additional funding in the future, if and as needed, through equity issuances or loans, or otherwise meet our current obligations to third parties could be adversely affected if the economic environment continues to be difficult. In addition, the ability of third parties to honor their obligations to us could 14 Table of Contents be negatively impacted, as retailers, suppliers and other parties deal with the difficult economic environment as well. Finally, there may be consequences that will ultimately result from the current economic conditions that are not yet known, and any one or more of these unknown consequences (as well as those currently being experienced) could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and liquidity as well as our business generally. Defects, failures or security breaches in and inadequate upgrade of or changes to our operating systems could harm our business. The operation of the coin-counting, DVD, money transfer and e-payment machines and equipment relating to our business, depends on sophisticated software, hardware, computer networking and communication services that may contain undetected errors or may be subject to failures or complications. These errors, failures or complications may arise particularly when new, changed or enhanced products or services are added. In the past, there have been limited delays and disruptions resulting from upgrading or improving these operating systems. Future upgrades, improvements or changes that may be necessary to expand and maintain our business could result in delays or disruptions or may not be timely or appropriately made, any of which could seriously harm our operations. Certain aspects of the operating systems relating to our business are outsourced to third-party providers, including long-distance telecommunications. Accordingly, the effectiveness of these operating systems is to a certain degree dependent on the actions and decisions of third-party providers. Further, while we have taken significant steps to protect the security of operating systems and have established certain back-up systems and disaster recovery procedures, service disruptions may result from intentional or unintentional acts of third parties, computer viruses, natural disasters, or other causes which are beyond our control. Any service disruptions, whether due to errors or delays in or failure to adequately upgrade software or computing systems, interruptions or breaches in the communications network, inadequate back-up or disaster recovery, or security breaches of the computer network systems, caused by us or third parties, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to adequately comply with information security policies or to safeguard against breaches of such policies could adversely affect our operations and could damage our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. As our business expands to provide new products and services, including additional money transfer, e-payment and DVD services, we are increasing the amount of consumer data that we collect, transfer and retain as part of our business. These activities are subject to laws and regulations, as well as industry standards, in the United States and other jurisdictions in which our products and services are available. These requirements, which often differ materially and sometimes conflict among the many jurisdictions in which we operate, are designed to protect the privacy of consumers’ personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. We maintain and review technical and operational safeguards designed to protect this information and require third party vendors and others with whom we work to do so as well. However, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies, third-party agents or others could improperly access relevant systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, or that we may be determined not to be in compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards for data security, such as the Payment Card Industry guidelines. Any breach of relevant security policies that compromises consumer data or determination of non-compliance with applicable legal requirements or industry standards for data security could expose us to regulatory enforcement actions, card association or other monetary fines or sanctions, or contractual liabilities, limit our ability to provide our products and services, subject us to litigation and damage our reputation. 15 Table of Contents Lack of consumer confidence, whether real or perceived, in our coin-counting machines could harm our business. The accuracy of the coin-counting functionality of our machines is important to consumers and our retailers. The failure to maintain consumer confidence in our technology and systems could harm our business. Our inability to collect the data from our coin-counting machines could lead to a delay in processing coins and crediting the accounts of our retailers for vouchers that have already been redeemed. Any inaccuracy, loss or delay in collecting or processing coin data could seriously harm our operations. Our future operating results may fluctuate. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to continue to drive new and repeat use of our coin-counting and DVD kiosks, our ability to develop and commercialize new products and services and the costs incurred to do so, and our ability to successfully integrate newer lines of business into our operations, including, for example, DVD and money transfer services. Our operating results have a history of fluctuating and may continue to fluctuate based upon many factors, including: • relationships with manufacturers and suppliers; • fluctuations in revenue generated by our coin-counting, DVD, money transfer and e-payment products and services; • our ability to establish or maintain relationships with significant retailers on acceptable terms; • the amount of service fees that we pay to our retailers; • the transaction fees we charge consumers to use our services; • fluctuations in consumer spending patterns; • the successful operation of our coin-counting, DVD, money transfer and e-payment network; • fluctuations in operating expenses caused by various factors, including petroleum costs, labor costs and transportation costs; • the commercial success of our retailers, which could be affected by such factors as general economic conditions, severe weather or strikes; • the level of product and price competition; • fluctuations in interest rates, which affects our debt service obligations; • the timing of, and our ability to develop and successfully commercialize, new or enhanced products and services; • activities of and acquisitions or announcements by competitors; and • the impact from any impairment of inventory, goodwill, fixed assets or intangibles related to our acquisitions. In addition, we have historically experienced seasonality in our revenues, with higher revenues in the second half of the year. Our coin product line generally experiences its highest revenues in the third calendar quarter, followed by the fourth calendar quarter, and relatively lower revenues in the first half of the year. Our DVD product line generates higher revenues in the second half of the year. Our e-payment and money transfer product lines generally provide their highest revenues in the fourth quarter. We expect our results of operations will continue to fluctuate as a result of seasonal fluctuations and our revenue mix between relatively higher margin coin and DVD product lines, and relatively lower margin e-payment and money transfer product lines. 16 Table of Contents We depend upon third-party manufacturers, suppliers and service providers for key components and substantial support for our coin-counting, e-payment and DVD services machines and equipment. We conduct limited manufacturing operations and depend on outside parties to manufacture key components of our coin-counting, DVD, e-payment services machines and equipment. We intend to continue to expand our installed base of machines and equipment. Such expansion may be limited by the manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner. If there is an unanticipated increase in demand for coin-counting or e-payment machines or DVD kiosks, we may be unable to meet such demand due to manufacturing constraints. Some key hardware components used in the coin-counting, DVD and e-payment machines are obtained from a limited number of suppliers. We may be unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of these components in a timely manner or, if necessary, from alternative sources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of components or to locate alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, we may experience delays in installing or maintaining coin-counting, DVD or e-payment machines, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers for substantial support and service efforts that we currently do not provide directly. In particular, we contract with third-party providers to arrange for pick-up, processing and deposit of coins as well as limited servicing of our machines. We generally contract with a single transportation provider and coin processor to service a particular region and either party generally can terminate the contracts with advance notice ranging from 30 to 90 days. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the foreseeable future, the internal capability to provide back-up coin processing service in the event of a sudden disruption in service from a commercial coin processor. Any failure by us to maintain our existing coin processing relationships or to establish new relationships on a timely basis or on acceptable terms could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to substantial federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulation specific to our business. Our business is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulation relating to coins, vehicle safety, access to machines in public places, charitable fundraising, the transfer of money or things of value, currency controls, weights and measures, payment cards and other payment instruments, sweepstakes, contests, consumer protection, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. The application of existing laws and regulations, changes in or enactment of new laws and regulations that apply or may in the future apply to our current or future products or services, changes in governmental authorities’ interpretation of the application of various government regulations to our business, or the failure or inability to gain and retain required permits and approvals could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, many jurisdictions require us to obtain certain licenses in connection with the operations of our coin-counting and e-payment and money transfer services. For example, we have obtained licenses in those states and the District of Columbia which require licenses with regard to provision of some of our e-payment services, including stored value card and money transfer transactions. There can be no assurance that we will be granted all necessary licenses or permits in the future, that current licenses or permits will be renewed or that regulators will not revoke current licenses or permits. Given the unique nature of our business and new products and services we may develop or acquire in the future, the application of various laws and regulations to our business is uncertain. Further, as governmental and regulatory scrutiny and action with regard to many aspects of our business increase, we expect that our costs of complying with the applicable legal requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or permits, loss of approved status, termination of contracts, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events, as well as the increased cost of compliance, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents There are risks associated with conducting our business and sourcing goods internationally. We currently have coin operations in Canada and the United Kingdom and Ireland and DVD operations in the United Kingdom. We expect to continue increasing our deployment of machines and equipment internationally. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, our money transfer services are offered in approximately 140 countries. Accordingly, political uncertainties, economic changes, civil unrest, exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, adverse changes in legal requirements, including tax, tariff and trade regulations, difficulties with foreign distributors and other difficulties in managing an organization outside the United States, could seriously harm the development of our business and ability to operate profitably. Further, as we do more business in an increasing number of countries, our business becomes more exposed to the impact of the political and economic uncertainties, including government oversight, of foreign jurisdictions. We purchase products from vendors that obtain a significant percentage of such products from foreign manufacturers. As a result, we are subject to changes in governmental policies, exchange rate fluctuations, various product quality standards, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls, transportation delays and interruptions and political and economic disruptions which could disrupt the supply and timely delivery of products manufactured abroad. In addition, we could be affected by labor strikes in the sea shipping, trucking and railroad industries. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our money transfer services business requires us to meet specific federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulations, subjecting us to additional risk. The money transfer industry is heavily regulated, both in the United States and internationally. We operate our money transfer services business under the authority of the licenses and approvals that we have obtained where required from the various jurisdictions in which we operate. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain these licenses and approvals in the future. In operating the money transfer services business in the United States for example, we are responsible for compliance with a variety of state laws and regulations, including licensing requirements, applicable to the business. In addition, we are subject to United States federal anti-money laundering laws, including United States Department of the Treasury registration requirements and reporting requirements for suspicious and certain other transactions, and the requirements of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit transmitting money to specified countries or to or on behalf of prohibited individuals or entities. If we were to transmit money to or on behalf of, or otherwise conduct business with, a prohibited individual or entity, we could be required to pay significant damages, including fines and penalties, and our ability to conduct business in the United States and other jurisdictions could be limited. The USA PATRIOT Act and the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act mandate several anti-money laundering requirements. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws could lead to significant penalties, and could limit our ability to conduct business in the United States and other jurisdictions. In addition, the money transfer industry is subject to international regulation, which varies from country to country. In certain countries in which we operate, we are required to maintain licenses or other governmental approvals in order to operate this business. As described above, we are responsible for compliance with these laws and regulatory requirements in those countries in which we operate the money transfer services business. Although most countries in which we operate this business do not regulate this business to the same degree as the United States, this could change in the future. Failure to comply, or as discussed below the failure of a money services business that we have acquired to comply before our acquisition, with the laws and government regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate, or in which the acquired company operated the money transfer services business could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, penalties or other damages, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and/or other civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more 18 Table of Contents of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, additions to or changes in the laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards in the United States or any of the foreign countries in which the money transfer services business operates could also increase our compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems redevelopment, reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete, lead to a loss of agents, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our money transfer service is and will remain reliant on an effective agent network. Substantially all of the money transfer services revenue is generated through an agent network spanning approximately 140 countries as of December 31, 2009. Agents include banks and other financial institutions, regional micro-finance companies, chain stores and local convenience stores. Transaction volumes at existing agent locations often increase over time and new agents provide us with additional revenue. If agents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. Agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent’s dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. In addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including changes in economic circumstances affecting consumers and potential consumers, the appearance of competitors close to our agent locations or increased competition. Because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, an agent may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Moreover, we could suffer financial loss and additional liability from the failure for any reason of our agents to provide good funds in a money transfer. The failure of the agent network to meet our expectations regarding revenue production and business efficiencies may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, failure, either intentional or unintentional, by our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, including anti-money laundering, consumer privacy and information security restrictions, in connection with our money transfer services business or otherwise, could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with third parties, administrative enforcement actions and fines, seizure or forfeiture of our funds, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability, as well as damage to our reputation. The occurrence of one or more of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money, and, as a result, our business is particularly dependent on our ability to process and settle transactions accurately and efficiently. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money. For example, our money transfer services revenues consist primarily of transaction fees that are charged for the movement of money. These transaction fees represent only a small fraction of the total amount of money that is moved. Further, our coin-counting and DVD services businesses require the effective transfer of large sums of money between many different locations as well. Because we are responsible for large sums of money that often are substantially greater than the revenues generated, the success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of the money that is remitted and that is used to clear payment instruments or complete transfers. We rely on the ability of our agents and employees and our operating systems and network to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors in our business, including, among others, clearing banks which clear our money orders, official checks and money transfers, and certain of our telecommunication providers. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event, security breach, improper operation or any other event impacting our systems or network or our vendors’ systems or processes, or improper or other actions taken by our agents, employees, or third party vendors, we could suffer financial loss, loss of consumers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. 19 Table of Contents Our consumers’ ability to access our products and services can be adversely affected by severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as fires, power failures, telecommunication loss and terrorist attacks. Our operational and financial performance is a direct reflection of consumer use of and the ability to operate and service the coin-counting, DVD, money transfer and e-payment services machines and equipment used in our business. Severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can, for extended periods of time, significantly reduce consumer use of our products and services as well as interrupt the ability of our employees and third-party providers to operate and service our equipment and machines. In some cases, severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control may result in extensive damage to or destruction of our infrastructure and equipment, including loss of machines used to provide our products and services, which losses may not be fully covered by insurance. Acquisitions and investments involve risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from such acquisitions and investments. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past sought and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business. For example, in February 2009 we completed the acquisition of the outstanding interest in Redbox. However, we may be unable to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by such acquisitions or investments and may not successfully integrate these acquisitions or investments, which could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of the acquisitions and investments. Further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions and investments, as well as the integration of acquired businesses, divert management time and other resources. In addition, we cannot assure you that any particular transaction, even if successfully completed, will ultimately benefit our business. Certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions and investments that may have a material impact on our business are: • the assumption of known and unknown liabilities of an acquired company, including employee and intellectual property claims and other violations of applicable law; • losses related to acquisitions and investments; • managing relationships with other investors and the companies in which we have made investments; • reduced liquidity, including through the use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions and investments; • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems or personnel of an acquired company; • inability to efficiently divest unsuccessful acquisitions and investments; • stockholder dilution if an acquisition is consummated through an issuance of our securities; • imposition of restrictive covenants and increased debt service obligations that provide us less flexibility in how we operate our business to the extent we borrow to finance an acquisition; • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; • costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on potential targets that may or may not be successful; • impairment of relationships with employees, retailers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business; • entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience; and • impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets arising from our acquisitions 20 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering in July 1997. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $18.84 to $38.28 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the termination, non-renewal or re-negotiation of one or more retailer, supplier or distributor relationships; • trends and fluctuations in the use of our coin, DVD, money transfer and e-payment services; • developments in our contractual obligations or litigation with movie studios and DVD distributors; • operating results below market expectations and changes in, or our failure to meet, financial estimates of securities analysts or our own guidance; • acquisition, merger, investment and disposition activities; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements regarding the establishment, modification or termination of relationships regarding the development of new or enhanced products and services; • release of analyst reports; • economic or other external factors, for example, those relating to the current economic environment and fluctuations in the trading price of stocks generally; • ineffective internal controls; and • industry developments. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also seriously harm the market price of our common stock. Our anti-takeover mechanisms may affect the price of our common stock and make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and depress the market price of our stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any acquirer of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, Washington law may impose additional restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any acquirer of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if the offer from a third party may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 