Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. before investing in our common stock, you should consider carefully the specific risks detailed in this “Risk Factors” section and any applicable prospectus supplement, together with all of the other information contained in this prospectus and any prospectus supplement. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have had net losses in our five most recent fiscal years and currently have stockholder’s equity of less than $6,000,000, and as a result, the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”), may consider suspending or delisting our securities from the exchange. The AMEX Company Guide provides that AMEX will normally consider suspending dealings in, or removing from listing, securities of a company which sustains net losses in its five most recent fiscal years and has stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000, unless the company has total market capitalization of at least $50,000,000, or total assets and revenue of $50,000,000. We have sustained net losses during our five most recent fiscal years, and as of the year ended December 31, 2006, our stockholders’ equity dropped to $1,319,890, from $3,365,602 for the year ended December 31, 2005. We do not currently meet the alternative minimum market capitalization or total asset and revenue requirements. As a result, we may be considered for suspension or delisting from AMEX. During May 2006, we received notification from AMEX that we were not in compliance with certain sections of the AMEX Company Guide. To maintain an AMEX listing, we were required to submit a plan to AMEX which demonstrates our ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards within a maximum of 18 months. We submitted our plan to AMEX in June 2006. The Listing Qualifications Department of AMEX evaluated our plan and in September 2006 notified us that we had made a reasonable demonstration in the plan of an ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the plan periods, which AMEX determined to be November 15, 2006 for Section 1003(a)(iv) of the AMEX Company Guide and November 30, 2007 for Sections 1003(a)(i), 10033(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iii) of the AMEX Company Guide. Accordingly, in September 2006, AMEX notified us that they would continue the listing of the Company subject to us making a public announcement disclosing the fact that we are not in compliance with the continued listing standards of the exchange and that our listing is being continued pursuant to an extension and our providing certain supporting documentation of key elements of our plan. We made the required public announcement and provided the requested information. We are subject to periodic review to determine if we are making progress consistent with the plan. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the applicable extension periods could result in AMEX initiating delisting proceedings. There is no assurance that we will make progress consistent with the plan, or that we will be able to continue our listing on AMEX. We have a history of significant recurring losses totaling approximately $70 million, and these losses may continue in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $70.3 million, and these losses may continue in the future. We may need to raise capital to cover these losses, and financing may not be available to us on favorable terms. We expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations as a result of: · varying demand for and market acceptance of our technology and products; · changes in our product or customer mix; · the gain or loss of one or more key customers or their key customers, or significant changes in the financial condition of one or more of our key customers or their key customers; · our ability to introduce, certify and deliver new products and technologies on a timely basis; 18 · the announcement or introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; · competitive pressures on selling prices; · costs associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired companies, products and technologies; · our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies, products and technologies; · our accounting and legal expenses; and · general economic conditions. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. To respond to these and other factors, we may need to make business decisions that could result in failure to meet financial expectations. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, inventory and debt repayment obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if our revenue for a particular period were below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Any revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results for the period. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from Stonefield Josephson, Inc., our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our substantial net losses and monetary liabilities have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships with business partners, to raise additional capital and to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have limited cash resources and we will require additional funding to finance our working capital requirements for the next twelve months. We currently have limited cash resources and we will require financing to fund our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. If we are not able to generate positive cash flows from operations in the near future, we will be required to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are required to sell equity to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may incur substantial dilution and any shares so issued may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to the rights, preferences and privileges of our outstanding common stock. Also, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with third parties that require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may be dependent upon our common stock being listed on AMEX. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the criteria for continued listing on AMEX. We depend upon a small number of large system sales ranging from $500,000 to in excess of $2,000,000, and we may fail to achieve one or more large system sales in the future. In the past three years, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of sales of large, relatively expensive systems, typically ranging in price from $500,000 to $2,000,000. As a result, if we fail to receive orders for these large systems in a given sales cycle on a consistent basis, our business could be significantly harmed. Further, our quarterly results are difficult to predict because we cannot predict in which quarter, if any, large system sales will occur in a given year. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, in which case the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly. 19 Our lengthy sales cycle may cause us to expend significant resources for as long as one year in anticipation of a sale to certain customers, yet we still may fail to complete the sale. When considering the purchase of a large computerized identity management system, a government agency may take as long as one year to evaluate different systems and obtain approval for the purchase. If we fail to complete a sale, we will have expended significant resources and received no revenue in return. Generally, agencies consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, ability to operate with their current systems, product reliability and their own budgetary constraints. While potential customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant management effort to accomplish a sale. A significant number of our customers are government agencies that are subject to unique political and budgetary constraints and have special contracting requirements which may affect our ability to obtain new government customers. A significant number of our customers are government agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore have little control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. Due to political and budgetary processes and other scheduling delays that may frequently occur relating to the contract or bidding process, some government agency orders may be canceled or substantially delayed, and the receipt of revenues or payments may be substantially delayed. In addition, future sales to government agencies will depend on our ability to meet government contracting requirements, certain of which may be onerous or impossible to meet, resulting in our inability to obtain a particular contract. Common requirements in government contracts include bonding requirements, provisions permitting the purchasing agency to modify or terminate at will the contract without penalty, and provisions permitting the agency to perform investigations or audits of our business practices. We may fail to create new applications for our products and enter new markets, which may affect our future success. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and market our technology for applications other than booking systems for the law enforcement market. If we fail in these goals, our business strategy and ability to generate revenues and cash flow would be significantly impaired. We intend to expend significant resources to develop new technology, but the successful development of new technology cannot be predicted and we cannot guarantee we will succeed in these goals. We occasionally rely on systems integrators to manage our large projects, and if these companies do not perform adequately, we may lose business. We occasionally act as a subcontractor to systems integrators who manage large projects that incorporate our systems, particularly in foreign countries. We cannot control these companies, and they may decide not to promote our products or may price their services in such a way as to make it unprofitable for us to continue our relationship with them. Further, they may fail to perform under agreements with their customers, in which case we might lose sales to these customers. If we lose our relationships with these companies, our business may suffer. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, trade secrets, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the claims included in our patents. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or 20 importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual rights with the third parties that license technology to us to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and technology, there is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees. However, such agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Our common law trademarks provide less protection than our registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling certain products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. Searching for existing intellectual property rights may not reveal important intellectual property and our competitors may also have filed for patent protection, which is not as yet a matter of public knowledge, or claimed trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: · increase the cost of our products; · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; · force us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, the terms of which may not be acceptable to us; · require us to indemnify third parties pursuant to contracts in which we have agreed to provide indemnification to such parties for intellectual property infringement claims; · divert the attention of our management; and · result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until the litigation is resolved. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. Existing or future acquisitions of businesses could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we fail to integrate the acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or if we discover previously undisclosed liabilities. 21 We completed the acquisitions of several companies, including G&A Imaging Ltd. (“G&A”), and we plan to continue to review potential acquisition candidates. Our business and our strategy include building our business through acquisitions. However, acceptable acquisition candidates may not be available in the future or may not be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Successful acquisitions depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: · difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; · delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; · diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; · limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; · higher costs of integration than we anticipated; and · difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities that we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in foreign countries and are exposed to risks associated with foreign political, economic and legal environments and with foreign currency exchange rates. With our acquisition of G&A, we have significant foreign operations. As a result, we are exposed to risks, including among others, risks associated with foreign political, economic and legal environments and with foreign currency exchange rates. Our results may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in government policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflation measures, currency conversions, remittance abroad and rates and methods of taxation. RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR STOCK The holders of our preferred stock have certain rights and privileges that are senior to our common stock, and we may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of the common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue a total of up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting rights, of the preferred stock, which typically are senior to the rights of the common stockholders, without any further vote or action by you and the other common stockholders. Your rights will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of the preferred stock that have been issued, or might be issued in the future. Preferred stock also could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the outstanding voting stock of ImageWare. This could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control. Furthermore, holders of preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights, senior to the common stock. As a result, their existence and issuance could have a material adverse effect on the market value of the common stock. We have in the past issued, and, may from time to time in the future issue, preferred stock for financing or other purposes with rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the common stock. At December 31, 2006 we had two series of preferred stock outstanding, Series B preferred stock and Series C 8% convertible preferred stock. In March 2007, we issued 1,500 shares of the Company’s Series D 8% Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series D Preferred Stock”) at a stated value of $1,000 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $1,500,000. The provisions of our Series B preferred stock prohibit the payment of dividends on the common stock unless the dividends on those preferred shares are first paid. In addition, upon a liquidation, dissolution or sale of ImageWare’s business, the 22 holders of the Series B preferred stock will be entitled to receive, in preference to any distribution to the holders of common stock, initial distributions of $2.50 per share, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends. Pursuant to the terms of our Series B preferred stock we are obligated to pay cumulative cash dividends on shares of Series B preferred stock from legally available funds at the annual rate of $0.2125 per share, payable in two semi-annual installments of $0.10625 each, which cumulative dividends must be paid prior to payment of any dividend on our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had cumulative undeclared dividends on the Series B preferred stock of approximately $9,000. The Series C Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference equal to its stated value, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon and any other fees or liquidated damages owing thereon. The Series C Preferred Stock accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 8.0% of the stated value per share per annum. At the option of the Company, the dividend payment may be made in the form of cash, after the payment of cash dividends to the holders of Series B preferred stock, or common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock. Each share of Series C Preferred Stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into a number of shares of common stock equal to the stated value (initially $1,000 per share, subject to adjustment), plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, divided by the conversion price (initially $1.50 per share, subject to adjustment). Subject to certain limitations, the conversion price per share shall be adjusted in the event of certain subsequent stock dividends, splits, reclassifications, dilutive issuances, rights offerings, and reclassifications. The Series C Preferred Stock generally does not have voting rights except as required by law, however, certain activities may not be undertaken by the Company without the affirmative vote of a majority of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had cumulative undeclared dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock of approximately $25,000. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for those shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; · our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; · developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · our inability to raise additional capital as needed; · concern as to the efficacy of our products; · changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; · sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. 23 Our future capital-raising activities could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Raising funds through the issuance of equity securities will dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. If registration rights that we have previously granted are exercised, then the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We have agreed to register with the SEC shares of common stock underlying our outstanding Series D Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 848,676 shares of common stock. In the event these securities are registered with the SEC, they may be freely sold in the open market provided the registration statement under which such securities are registered remains effective and subject to trading restrictions to which our insiders holding the shares may be subject from time to time. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. The sale of a significant amount of shares in the open market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or become highly volatile. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes preferred stocks, which carry special rights, including voting and dividend rights. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our executive management and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be paid on the common stock for the foreseeable future. The payment of any cash dividend by us will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, capital, regulatory requirements and financial condition. Furthermore, the terms of our Series B preferred stock and Series C Preferred Stock directly limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. 24 Securities analysts may not continue to cover our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will continue to cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business or us. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price may decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of ImageWare, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and a global settlement reached between the SEC, other regulatory analysts and a number of investment banks in April 2003, may lead to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms will now be required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies with smaller market capitalizations, such as our company, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock, which could have a negative effect on our market price. The large number of holders and lack of concentration of ownership of our common stock may make it difficult for us to reach a quorum or obtain an affirmative vote of our stockholders at future stockholder meetings. Our stock is held in a large number of individual accounts with no one registered holder or group of registered holders individually accounting for more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, it may be difficult for us to reach a quorum or obtain an affirmative vote of a majority of our stockholders where either of those thresholds are measured based on the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. Difficulty in obtaining a stockholder vote could impact our ability to complete any financing or strategic transaction requiring stockholder approval or effect basic corporate governance changes, such as an increase in the authorized number of shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 