D. Risk factors RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, prospects and or the market price of our common shares. This Risk Factors section is written in accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's "plain English" guidelines. In this section, the words "we," "us," "our" and "ours" refer only to the Company and its subsidiaries and not any other person. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS WE HAVE INCURRED NET LOSSES SINCE COMMENCING BUSINESS AND EXPECT LOSSES TO CONTINUE FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE We have had limited revenues to date and have not shown a profit since inception. The Company had a net loss of $11,997,344 for the year ended December 31, 2005 as well as a net loss of $9,916,215 for the year ended December 31, 2004. As at December 31, 2005, the Company has a working capital deficit of $5,357,001. As this is a new business, we may experience typical problems, difficulties, complications and delays. We expect to show a substantial net loss for the year ended 2006. We do not expect revenues to increase in any significant way until we have successfully established commercial BioOil operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to operate profitably on a consistent basis, if at all. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt and is dependent on achieving profitable operations, commercializing its BioOil production technology and obtaining the necessary financing in order to develop this technology. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. The Company's future operations are dependent on the market's acceptance of its products in order to ultimately generate future profitable operations, and the Company's ability to secure sufficient financing to fund future operations. There can be no assurance that the Company's products will be able to secure market acceptance. Management plans to raise additional equity financing to enable the company to complete its development plans. These financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Subsequent to the year end, during the period from January 1 to March 24, 2006, the Company issued 11,253,937 common shares for total proceeds of $7,680,459, inclusive of $1,615,000 received as at December 31, 2005, relating to a private placement commencing during the forth quarter of 2005. In addition during the period from January 1 to March 24, 2006, the Company received $1.64 million on the exercise of 269,172 options and 4,022,806 warrants. Management is of the opinion that this and expected future 5 financing along with expected sales will provide sufficient working capital to meet the Company's liabilities and commitments as they become due. OUR TECHNOLOGY MAY NOT PROVE COMMERCIALLY VIABLE Our technology is currently being tested at a commercial scale. Ongoing efforts at commercialization may expose operational flaws and unanticipated costs that may inhibit or preclude ultimate market acceptance. Our technology has not demonstrated it can generate positive cash flow or a return on investment. WE HAVE LIMITED FINANCIAL AND MANAGEMENT RESOURCES TO PURSUE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY Our growth strategy may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We have negative cash flow from operations and continue to seek additional capital. We will likely have to obtain additional capital either through debt or equity financing to continue our research and development strategies. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to the Company. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to delay, scale-back or eliminate the manufacturing, marketing or sales of one or more of our products or research and development programs. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, these new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our Common Shares. Additionally, the percentage of ownership of the Company held by existing shareholders will be reduced. WE MUST DEVELOP AND EXPAND OUR SALES AND MARKETING CAPABILITIES Our sales and marketing experience is very limited. We will be required to further develop our marketing and sales force in order to effectively demonstrate the advantages of our technology over more traditional technology, as well as other competitors' technology. We may not be able to establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities, and there is no guarantee that our sales and marketing experience will be successful. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS Patents and other intellectual property are a critical aspect of the present operation and future success of our business. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies and other intellectual rights could entail significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given that the laws of some countries afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Given the nature of our business, third parties may bring claims of copyright, patent or trademark infringement against us. Further, third parties may claim that we have misappropriated their creative ideas or otherwise infringed on their proprietary rights in connection with our technologies. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or prevent us from using important technologies or methods. OUR BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT IS VERY COMPETITIVE The markets for alternative energy technologies is highly competitive, and other providers of such technologies, especially producers of ethanol from biomass, may have various advantages in competition with ours. Many of our competitors have established long-standing relationships with power generation companies, utilities, manufacturers and others that we view as potential customers. Many competitors also have substantially greater access to capital and technical resources than we do and may therefore have a significant competitive advantage. 6 Our primary technologies face market acceptance barriers that do not affect already established technologies. To date, our primary technologies have gained only limited market acceptance and have generated minimal revenues. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO HAZARDOUS WASTE LIABILITIES BioOil and some of its derivative products may be deemed to be hazardous wastes for which a liability may be imposed upon us should any contamination from improper storage or handling occur. Liability costs associated with environmental cleanups of contaminated sites historically have been very high as have been the level of fines imposed by regularity authorities upon parties deemed to be responsible for environmental contamination. We have obtained limited insurance protection but this may not be sufficient insurance protection from such liabilities if they should ever arise. If contamination should take place for which we are deemed to be liable, potentially liable or a responsible party, the resulting costs could have a material effect on our business. OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF WE LOSE KEY SKILLED PERSONNEL We are dependent on certain members of our management and engineering staff, and if we lose their services our business could be severely impacted. In particular, we rely on the services of our Chief Executive Officer and Vice President Engineering. In addition, our ability to manage growth effectively will require that we continue to implement and improve our management systems and recruit and train new employees. We may not be able to successfully attract and hire skilled and experienced personnel. OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES MAY NOT ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS We expect to partially rely on strategic alliances for development contracts, assistance in research and development and marketing expertise. Even if we are successful in forming these alliances, they may not achieve their goals. THE ABILITY TO TRADE THE COMPANY'S STOCK MAY BE LIMITED Shares of the Company's Common Shares currently trade only upon the Over- the-Counter Bulletin Board market. This may not provide the same liquidity for the trading of securities as the NASDAQ or other exchange. Because our shares are not listed on NASDAQ or any other exchange, the Company's stock presently comes within the definition of a "penny stock" as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules under that Act. Generally, the penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker- dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules. Therefore, investors may find it more difficult to sell their shares. OUR STOCK'S TRADING PRICE WILL BE SUBJECT TO MARKET VOLATILITY In recent years, the stock market in general, and the prices of stock of technology companies including our own, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, sometimes without regard to the fundamentals of the particular company. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. 7 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 that reflect our current expectations about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. Where possible, the forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "seeks," "estimates," "intends," "may," "will," and other similar expressions; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterization of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors including those identified in the "Risk Factors" section of this Form 20-F, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by, these statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to the filing of this report or for any other reason. 