D. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this report before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. We operate in a market environment that is difficult to predict and that involves significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Refer to “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to our Business We have incurred net losses since commencing business and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have had limited revenues to date and have not shown a profit since inception. We had a net loss of $14,220,404 for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $14,252,382 for the year ended December 31, 2006. As at December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,796,822 and a working capital deficiency of $3,024,446. As the commercialization of BioOil is a new business, we may experience problems, difficulties, complications and delays typical for companies such as ours. We expect to show a substantial net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. We do not expect revenues to occur in any significant way until we have successfully established commercial BioOil operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to operate profitably on a consistent basis, if at all. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt and is dependent on achieving profitable operations, commercializing its BioOil production technology and obtaining the necessary financing in order to develop this technology. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. The Company’s future operations are dependent on the market’s acceptance of its products in order to ultimately generate future profitable operations, and the Company’s ability to secure sufficient financing to fund future operations. There can 3 be no assurance that the Company’s products will be able to secure market acceptance. Management plans to raise additional equity financing to enable the Company to complete its development plans. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional financing. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. We have limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial position and our business plan. We are an early stage company that has conducted limited business operations to date. Accordingly, there is a limited operating history by which to evaluate the likelihood of our success or our ability to exist as a going concern. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. In addition, we may never commence significant operations or, if we do, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. Federal tax incentives for BioOil production may be eliminated in the future, which could hinder our ability to operate at a profit. The BioOil industry and our business are assisted by various federal tax incentives. The elimination, expiration or reduction of tax incentives could prevent us from being able to sell BioOil at a price higher than our current cost to produce BioOil. If the federal tax incentives are eliminated or sharply curtailed, we believe that a decreased demand for BioOil would result, which could result in the failure of the business. We may need to obtain a significant amount of additional debt and/or equity capital to complete the commissioning and commercialization of the plants described in this report, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms or at all. We will require additional capital to fund our business and development plan, including the construction of additional BioOil plants. In addition, once these plants have been constructed, we will have to fund the start-up operations of these plants until, if ever, the plants generate sufficient cash flow from their operations. We may also encounter unforeseen costs that could also require us to seek additional capital. As a result, we expect to seek to raise additional debt and/or equity funding. The full and timely development and implementation of our business plan and growth strategy will require significant additional resources, and we may not be able to obtain the funding necessary to implement our growth strategy on acceptable terms or at all. An inability to obtain such funding would prevent us from constructing any additional BioOil plants. Furthermore, our construction strategy may not produce material revenues even if successfully funded. We have not yet identified the sources for the additional financing we require and we do not have commitments from any third parties to provide this financing. We might not succeed, therefore, in raising additional equity capital or in negotiating and obtaining additional and acceptable financing. Our ability to obtain additional capital will also depend on market conditions, national and global economies and other factors beyond our control. We might not be able to obtain required working capital, the need for which is substantial given our business and development plan. The terms of any future debt or equity funding that we may obtain may be unfavorable to us and to our stockholders. We envision a period of growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources which if not effectively managed could impair our growth. Our strategy envisions a period of growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could prevent us from achieving our goals. The growth of our business, and in particular, the construction of any additional BioOil production facilities, will require significant investments of capital and management's close attention. In addition to the possibility of constructing additional BioOil production facilities, we may seek to enter into significant marketing agreements, and other similar agreements with companies that currently, or expect to, produce or use BioOil. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel; we may be unable to do so. In addition, our failure to successfully manage our growth could result in our sales not increasing commensurate with our capital investments. 4 We have limited financial and management resources to pursue our growth strategy. Our growth strategy may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We have negative cash flow from operations and continue to seek additional capital. We will have to obtain additional capital either through debt or equity financing to continue our research and development strategies and the commercial expansion of our technologies. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to the Company. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms when needed, we may be required to delay, scale-back or eliminate the manufacturing, marketing or sales of one or more of our products or research and development programs. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, these new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our Common Shares. Additionally, the percentage of ownership of the Company held by existing shareholders will be reduced. We will be dependent on third parties for expertise in the design and construction of BioOil plants and any loss or impairment of these relationships could cause delay and added expense. In addition, we currently have no binding definitive construction agreements with such parties and their failure to perform could hinder our ability to operate profitably. The number of engineering and construction firms with the necessary expertise to design and build BioOil plants and their available capacity is limited. We will be dependent on our relationships with third parties for engineering and construction expertise. Any loss of, or damage to, these relationships, particularly during the construction and start-up period for the plant(s), may significantly delay or even prevent us from commencing operations at additional facilities and result in the failure of our business. The time and expense of locating new consultants and contractors could result in unforeseen expenses and delays. Unforeseen expenses and delays may reduce our ability to generate revenue and profitability and significantly damage our competitive position in the BioOil industry. We will be highly dependent upon contractors to design and build any future BioOil plants, but we have not signed definitive binding construction agreements with any of these companies. We have not yet negotiated or executed definitive design-build agreements with any party and there is no assurance that such agreements will be executed in a timely manner or at all. If we do not execute definitive, binding design-build agreements with third parties, or if any such third party terminates its relationship with us after initiating construction, there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain a replacement general contractor. We may depend on others for sales of our products, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce profitability. We expect to hire third-party marketing firms to market some of the BioOil we plan to produce. As a result, we expect to be dependent on any BioOil broker that we engage. There is no assurance that we will be able to enter into contracts with any BioOil broker on terms that are favorable to us. If the BioOil broker breaches the contract or does not have the ability, for financial or other reasons, to market all of the BioOil we produce, we may not have any readily available means to sell our products. Our lack of a sales force and reliance on third parties to sell and market our products may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our failure to sell all of our BioOil may result in less income from sales, reducing our revenue stream. We will be required to hire and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. Personnel qualified to operate and manage BioOil plants are in great demand. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified management and skilled employees, particularly managerial, technical, sales, and marketing personnel, technicians, and other critical personnel. Any failure to attract and retain the highly-trained managerial and technical personnel may have a negative impact on our operations, which would have a negative impact on revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain skilled persons and the loss of skilled technical personnel would adversely affect our company. 5 We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction, and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon our officers for execution of our business plan. The loss of any of our officers could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our officers. The loss of any of our officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Increases in site or plant construction costs may require us to raise additional capital. We anticipate that third-party contractors will construct any additional plants we elect to pursue for a fixed contract price, based on the plans and specifications in the anticipated design-build agreements. The estimated cost of constructing BioOil production plants is based on management's best estimates, and there is no assurance that the final cost of one or more of our plants will not be higher. There is no assurance that there will not be design changes or cost overruns associated with the construction of plants. Shortages of steel, concrete or other building materials or labor could affect the final cost and final completion date of any project. In addition, specific site conditions at any plant site may increase construction costs. Any significant increase in the estimated construction cost of the plant could require us to raise additional capital. Construction delays or defects could result in delays in increasing our production and sale of BioOil and negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Construction projects often involve delays for a number of reasons including delays in obtaining permits, delays due to weather conditions, or other events. Also, any changes in political administrations at each level that result in policy changes towards BioOil could also cause construction and/or operation delays. If it takes longer to increase the production capacity of the West Lorne facility than anticipated or if it takes us longer to construct any other plant we decide to construct, our ability to generate revenues could be impaired. In addition, there can be no assurance that defects in materials and/or workmanship will not occur. Such defects could delay the commencement of enhanced capacity operations of the plant or cause us to halt or discontinue the plant's operation or reduce the intended production capacity. Halting or discontinuing plant operations could delay our ability to generate revenues. Plant sites, including our plants, may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time consuming to correct which may delay or halt plant construction and delay our ability to generate revenue. BioOil and some of its derivative products may be deemed to be hazardous wastes for which liability may be imposed upon us should any contamination from improper storage or handling occur. Liability costs associated with environmental cleanups of contaminated sites historically have been very high as have been the level of fines imposed by regularity authorities upon parties deemed to be responsible for environmental contamination. We have obtained limited insurance protection but this may not be sufficient insurance protection from such liabilities if they should ever arise. If contamination should take place for which we are deemed to be liable, potentially liable or a responsible party, the resulting costs could have a material effect on our business. We may encounter hazardous conditions at or near each of our facility sites that may delay or prevent construction or operation of a particular facility. If we encounter a hazardous condition at or near a site, work may be suspended and we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction or further production. The presence of a hazardous condition would likely delay or prevent construction of a particular facility and may require significant expenditure of resources to correct the condition. If we encounter any hazardous condition during construction, estimated sales and profitability may be adversely affected. Any operational disruption at our facilities could result in a reduction of our sales volume, and could cause us to incur substantial losses. If we are unable to complete the expansion of the West Lorne facility, or if our operations at any of our facilities experience a significant interruption due to a major accident or damage by severe weather or other natural disasters, our ability to generate revenues could be adversely impacted. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in our industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural 6 disasters. We have not operated the West Lorne facility or facility in Guelph, Ontario at or near capacity for an extended period and cannot be sure that we will be able to do so. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not cover or be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above. Our technology may not prove commercially viable. Our technology is currently being tested at a commercial scale. Ongoing efforts at commercialization may expose operational flaws and unanticipated costs that may inhibit or preclude ultimate market acceptance. Our technology has not demonstrated it can generate positive cash flow or a return on investment. We may be sued or become a party to litigation, which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to lawsuits from time to time arising in the ordinary course of our business. We may be forced to incur costs and expenses in connection with defending ourselves with respect to such litigation and the payment of any settlement or judgment in connection therewith if there is an unfavorable outcome. The expense of defending litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve lawsuits is unpredictable and defending ourselves may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could negatively affect our ability to compete. Patents and other intellectual property are a critical aspect of the present operation and future success of our business. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies and other intellectual rights could entail significant expense and could be difficult or impossible, particularly given that the laws of some countries afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Given the nature of our business, third parties may bring claims of copyright, patent or trademark infringement against us. Further, third parties may claim that we have misappropriated their creative ideas or otherwise infringed on their proprietary rights in connection with our technologies. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or prevent us from using important technologies or methods. We rely or may rely on a combination of trademark, tradename, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our confidential information. These measures may not preclude the disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Monitoring unauthorized use of our confidential information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our confidential information will be effective. We must develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. Our sales and marketing experience is very limited. We will be required to further develop our marketing and sales force in order to effectively demonstrate the advantages of our technology over more traditional technology, as well as other competitors’ technology. We may not be able to establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities, and there is no guarantee that our sales and marketing experience will be successful. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of the regulations could be expensive and hinder our ability to operate profitably. We are and will continue to be subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and will need to maintain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our plants. If for any reason, any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the plants may increase, or the plants may not be constructed at all. 7 Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in liabilities that affect our financial condition and the expense of compliance alone could be significant enough to reduce profits. Our strategic alliances may not achieve their goals. We expect to partially rely on strategic alliances for development contracts, assistance in research and development and marketing expertise. Even if we are successful in forming these alliances, they may not achieve their goals. Risks Related to the BioOil Industry Our financial performance will be dependent on prices for waste materials we use in the production of BioOil which are subject to and determined by market forces outside our control. An increase in the prices for these input commodities will materially affect our ability to operate at a profit. Our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected by the cost and supply of the biomass materials we use in the production of BioOil. The price of these inputs is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions, and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of these inputs is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect their supply, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase these materials prices and potentially harm our business. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in sourcing these materials on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require us to suspend operations until these materials are available at economical terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The price we pay for these materials at a facility could increase if an additional BioOil production facility is built in the same general vicinity. Price increases in such inputs or a lack of supply of such inputs could increase production costs, reduce profit margins and negatively affect cash flow. This is especially true if market conditions do not allow us to pass through increased costs to our customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass through higher raw material prices to our customers. If a period of high raw material prices or other inputs were to be sustained for some time, such pricing may reduce our ability to operate and generate revenues. In certain instances, we could decide to limit or even cease production of BioOil for a period of time. Declines in the prices of BioOil will have a significant negative impact on our financial performance. Our revenues will be greatly affected by the price at which we can sell our BioOil. These prices can be volatile as a result of a number of factors. These factors include the overall supply and demand, level of government support, and the availability and price of competing products. BioOil prices generally parallel the movement of petroleum oil prices. Oil prices are difficult to forecast because the market reflects the global economy, which is subject to political upheaval, natural disasters, and other factors. Even the slightest rumor of political instability can significantly affect the price of oil. Further, exchange rates play a key role in domestic oil pricing. There can be no assurance as to the price of BioOil in the future. Any downward changes in the price of BioOil may result in lower revenue which would decrease our income. The BioOil production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. Many of our competitors in the BioOil production and marketing industry have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively than we could and sustain that competition over a longer period of time. Our lack of resources relative to many of our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share, sales and profitability. 8 The markets for alternative energy technologies is highly competitive, and other providers of such technologies, especially producers of ethanol from biomass, may have various advantages in competition with ours. Many of our competitors have established long-standing relationships with power generation companies, utilities, manufacturers and others that we view as potential customers. We face market acceptance barriers that do not affect already established technologies. To date, our technology has gained only limited market acceptance. Competition from the advancement of alternative fuels may lessen the demand for BioOil and negatively impact our profitability. Alternative fuels, gasoline oxygenates and BioOil production methods are continually under development. A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean burning gaseous fuels. Like BioOil, the emerging fuel cell industry offers a technological option to address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. Fuel cells have emerged as a potential alternative to certain existing power sources because of their higher efficiency, reduced noise and lower emissions. Fuel cell industry participants are currently targeting the transportation, stationary power and portable power markets in order to decrease fuel costs, lessen dependence on crude oil and reduce harmful emissions. If the fuel cell and hydrogen industries continue to expand and gain broad acceptance, and hydrogen becomes readily available to consumers for motor vehicle use, we may not be able to compete effectively. This additional competition could reduce the demand for BioOil, which would negatively impact our profitability. Changes and advances in BioOil production technology could require us to incur costs to update our BioOil plants or could otherwise hinder our ability to compete in the BioOil industry or operate profitably. Advances and changes in BioOil production technology may make the BioOil production technology installed in our current plants or any of our future plants, less desirable or obsolete. These advances may also allow competitors to produce BioOil at a lower cost than us. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our BioOil production methods and processes could be less efficient than our competitors, which could cause us to become uncompetitive or completely obsolete. If competitors develop, obtain or license technology that is superior to ours or that makes our technology obsolete, we may be required to incur significant costs to enhance or acquire new technology so that our BioOil production remains competitive. Alternatively, we may be required to seek third-party licenses, which could also result in significant expenditures. We cannot guarantee or assure that third-party licenses will be available or, once obtained, will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. These costs could negatively impact our financial performance by increasing our operating costs and reducing our net income. As domestic BioOil production comes to grow, BioOil prices may decline which could significantly reduce sales. The number of BioOil plants being developed and constructed is increasing. If the demand for BioOil does not grow at the same pace as increases in supply, we would expect the price for BioOil to decline. Declining BioOil prices will result in lower revenues and may reduce or eliminate profits. Risks Related to our Common Stock The ability to trade the Company’s stock may be limited. Shares of our common stock currently trade on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board market. This market may not provide the same liquidity for the trading of securities as NASDAQ or other exchanges. Our stock presently falls within the definition of a “penny stock” as defined in SEC rules. Generally, the penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before executing a transaction in a penny stock to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that the broker-dealer must make a special written 9 determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules. Therefore, investors may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Our stock price is volatile and could decline in the future. Market prices for our common stock are influenced by many factors and are subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results and other factors. Historically, the trading price of our stock has been volatile. Factors that could affect our future stock price, and create volatility in our stock price, include the price and demand for BioOil, the price and availability of oil and gasoline, regulatory changes that affect the price of BioOil, the existence or discontinuation of legislative incentives for renewable fuels, the trading price of the stock of our competitors, investor perceptions of the Company, interest rates, general economic conditions and those specific to the industry, developments with regard to our operations and activities, our future financial condition, and changes in our management. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our stock and we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. 