Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The termination, non-renewal or renegotiation on materially adverse terms of our contracts with one or more of our significant retailers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive substantially all of our revenue from two sources: coin-counting machines installed in high-traffic supermarkets and entertainment services machines installed in supermarkets, mass merchandisers, restaurants, bowling centers, truck stops, warehouse clubs and similar locations. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to maintain contractual relationships with our retailers in profitable locations. Our typical contract term ranges from one to three years and automatically renews until we or the retailer gives notice of termination. Certain contract provisions with our retailers vary, including product and service offerings, the service fees we are committed to pay each retailer, frequency of service, and the ability to cancel the contract upon notice after a certain period of time. We strive to provide direct and indirect benefits to our retailers that are superior to or competitive with other providers or systems (including coin-counting systems which retailers could operate themselves or through a third party) or alternative uses of the floor space that our machines occupy. If we are unable to provide our retailers with adequate benefits, we may be unable to maintain or renew our contractual relationships on acceptable terms causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We do a substantial amount of our business with certain retailers. For example, we have significant relationships with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and the Kroger Company, which account for approximately 27% and 11% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Our entertainment services relationship with Wal-Mart is governed by a contract that Wal-Mart may terminate at any time. Cancellation or adverse renegotiation of these relationships could seriously harm our business and reputation. Payment of increased service fees to retailers could negatively affect our business results. We face ongoing pricing pressure from our retailers to increase the service fees we pay to them on coin and entertainment products and services or to make other financial concessions to win or retain business. If we are unable to respond effectively to ongoing pricing pressures, we may fail to win or retain certain accounts. Our fee arrangements are based on our evaluation of unique factors with each retailer, such as total revenue, e-payment 7 Table of Contents capabilities, long-term non-cancelable contracts, installation of our machines and equipment in high-traffic and/or urban or rural locations and new product and service commitments. Together with other factors, an increase in service fees paid or other financial concessions made to our retailers could significantly increase our direct operating expenses in future periods and harm our business. We may be unable to attract new retailers and penetrate new markets and distribution channels. In order to increase our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services machine and equipment installations, we need to attract new retailers and develop operational or unit production cost efficiencies that make it feasible for us to penetrate lower density markets or new distribution channels such as banks and credit unions. We may be unable to attract new retailers or drive down costs relating to the manufacture, installation or servicing of coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services machines to levels that would enable us to operate profitably in lower density markets or penetrate new distribution channels. If we are unable to do so, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Our strategy to cross-sell our products and services to retailers may be unsuccessful. An important part of our 4th Wall solution is based on cross-selling our selection of products and services to our retailers. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our relationships with retailers to include additional products and services in their storefronts, due to, among other things, failure to negotiate contracts for additional products and services on acceptable terms, other parties providing similar products and services on more favorable terms, or reluctance by retailers to obtain these historically separate product and service categories from a single provider. If we are unable to effectively implement our cross-selling strategy, our business could be negatively impacted. We may be unable to identify and define product and service trends or anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. To be competitive, we need to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market and establish third-party relationships necessary to develop and commercialize such products and services. For example, toy and other products dispensed in our entertainment services machines must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. If we misjudge the market for our products and services, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products, such as toys and other entertainment products, and missed opportunities for sales of other products and services. Further, in order to develop and commercialize new non-entertainment products and services, including our money transfer business, we will need to enhance the capabilities of our coin-counting machines and e-payment machines and equipment, as well as our related network and systems through appropriate technological solutions, and establish market acceptance of such products or services. We cannot assure you that new products or services that we attempt to commercialize will be successful. We may be unable to achieve the strategic and financial objectives for our entry into and our expansion of our entertainment services, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We entered the entertainment services market as a result of our acquisition of ACMI in July 2004, and have since expanded this line of business through other acquisitions, including Amusement Factory in 2005. Our entertainment services now represents our largest source of revenue. There are a number of financial and operational risks associated with this line of business. For example, • We may be unable to leverage the comparatively lower growth and lower margin entertainment services business with our other lines of business to produce the cross-selling opportunities we had anticipated. • We may be unable to achieve the operating results for the entertainment services business in line with our expectations. 8 Table of Contents • We assumed unanticipated liabilities, such as certain employee-related costs, and may have assumed other unanticipated liabilities, when we acquired various entities and assets that now comprise our entertainment services business. • We may incur adverse accounting charges. For example, in connection with our acquisition of ACMI, we recorded approximately $136.1 million of goodwill in connection with the acquisition that will not be amortized, but instead must be tested periodically for impairment. Any impairment of this goodwill in the future could result in substantial charges to our operating results. For these and other reasons, we may be unable to achieve the strategic and financial objectives for our entry into and the expansion of our entertainment services business. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Competitive pressures could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our coin-counting services faces competition from supermarkets, banks and other companies that purchase and operate coin-counting equipment from companies such as ScanCoin AB, Cummins-Allison Corporation and others. Our retailers may choose to replace our coin-counting machines with competitor machines and operate such machines themselves or through a third party. In addition, retailers, some of which have significantly more resources than us, may decide to enter the coin-counting market. Some banks and other competitors already provide coin-counting free of charge or for an amount that yields very low margins or that may not generate a profit at all. An expansion of the coin-counting services provided by any of these competitors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our entertainment services faces competition from a number of regional and local operators of entertainment services equipment. Many of these competitors are engaged in expansion programs, and we experience intense competition for locations. Our entertainment services equipment also competes with other vending machines, coin-operated entertainment devices, and seasonal and bulk merchandise for sites within retail locations. We may be unable to maintain current sites in retail locations or to obtain new sites in the future on attractive terms or at all. It is possible that a well-financed vending machine manufacturer or other vending machine operator with existing relationships with our retailers could compete with us in certain markets or capture additional market share at our expense. Our e-payment services, including our prepaid wireless and long distance accounts, stored value cards, debit cards, payroll services and money transfer services, faces competition from a variety of types of providers, including, among others, national distributors of similar cards, other retailers who provide these services themselves, as well as money transfer companies. Many of these providers are more established in selling their e-payment services than we are and many invest more resources in providing such services to customers. In addition, in order for us to provide many of our e-payment services, we depend on relationships with third parties, such as national wireless carriers, national supermarket chains and other retailers and financial institutions. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively market our e-payment services or maintain and establish successful relationships with appropriate third parties, our e-payment services will not be competitive. In addition, the nature and extent of consolidation in markets where we install our machines and equipment, particularly the supermarket and other retailing industries, could adversely affect our operations, including our competitive position, as the number of our machine and equipment installations could be significantly reduced. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our patents and other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through a combination of patents, licenses and other intellectual property arrangements, without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have over 70 United States and international patents related to aspects of self-service coin-counting, including patents regarding machine networking, fraud avoidance and voucher authentication. We also have additional patent applications pending in the United States and several 9 Table of Contents foreign jurisdictions directed to our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment technologies. In addition, we may apply for or obtain (through development, acquisition or otherwise) additional patents regarding technologies used in our business. Our patents may not be held valid if challenged, our patent applications may not be issued, and other parties may claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. Since many patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, others may have filed applications, which, if issued as patents, could cover our products or technology. Patents issued to us may be circumvented or fail to provide adequate protection of our technologies. Our competitors might independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. Further, since patent terms are limited, other parties may begin practicing our patented technologies when our related patents expire. In addition, certain parties may assert claims of patent infringement or misappropriation against us based on current or pending United States or foreign patents, copyrights or trade secrets, or contracts. If such claims were successful, our business could be harmed. Defending our company and our retailers against these types of claims, regardless of their merits, could require us to incur substantial costs and divert the attention of key personnel. Parties making these types of claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block or impair our ability to provide our coin-counting, entertainment or e-payment services, in the United States or abroad. Such claims could also result in an award of substantial damages. If third parties have or obtain proprietary rights that our products infringe, we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from others at a reasonable cost or at all. For example, we have from time to time engaged in discussions with a former supplier, ScanCoin AB, in an effort to clarify certain contract rights and obligations as well as ownership of certain of our intellectual property. In addition, if we instigate litigation to enforce our patents or protect our other proprietary rights, or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, such litigation could cause us to spend significant financial and management resources. For example, we instigated litigation against Coin X Change, LLC, on May 2, 2006, for infringement of four of our patents relating to our coin-counting technology. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we protect our intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and corporate partners, these parties may breach these agreements. We may have inadequate remedies for any such breach and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be discovered independently by our competitors. The failure to protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others, as well as unfavorable rulings or settlements, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial indebtedness. On July 7, 2004, we entered into a senior secured credit facility to finance our acquisition of ACMI. The credit facility consists of a $60.0 million revolving credit facility and a $250.0 million term loan facility, of which $187.0 million is outstanding. The credit facility bears interest at variable rates pegged to prevailing interest rates. As a result, our operating results are exposed to risks of fluctuations in interest rates. Loans made pursuant to the credit facility are secured by a first security interest in substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of our subsidiaries’ capital stock. The credit facility matures on July 7, 2011. This credit facility may limit our ability to obtain future financings or may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. Due to substantial financial leverage, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service the indebtedness, or to adequately fund our operations. Moreover, the credit facility contains negative covenants and restrictions relating to such things as certain common stock repurchases, liens, investments, capital expenditures, indebtedness, cash payments of dividends, and fundamental changes or dispositions of our assets that could impair our flexibility to pursue growth opportunities. In addition, the credit facility requires that we meet certain financial covenants, ratios and tests, including maintaining a 10 Table of Contents maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, all as defined in the credit facility. If the covenants are not met, our lenders would be entitled, under certain circumstances, to declare our indebtedness immediately due and payable. Defects, failures or security breaches in and inadequate upgrade of our operating systems could harm our business. The operation of our coin-counting machines and e-payment equipment depends on sophisticated software, computer networking and communication services that may contain undetected errors or may be subject to failures. These errors may arise particularly when new or enhanced products or services are added. We have in the past experienced limited delays and disruptions resulting from upgrading or improving our operating systems. Future upgrades or improvements that may be necessary to expand and maintain our business could result in delays or disruptions that could seriously harm our operations. In addition, we outsource to third-party providers certain aspects of our operating systems, including our long-distance telecommunications network. Accordingly, the effectiveness of our operating systems is to a certain degree dependent on the actions and decisions of our third-party providers. Further, while we have taken significant steps to protect the security of our operating systems, security breaches may result from intentional or unintentional acts of third parties, computer viruses or natural disasters, which are beyond our control. Any service disruptions, whether due to errors or delays in or failure to adequately upgrade our software or computing systems, interruptions or breaches in the communications network, or security breaches of the computer network system, caused by us or third parties, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to adequately comply with information security policies or to safeguard against breaches of such policies could adversely affect our operations and could damage our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. As our business expands to provide new products and services, including additional e-payment services, we are increasing the amount of consumer data that we collect, transfer and retain as part of our business. These activities are subject to laws and regulations, as well as industry standards, in the United States and other jurisdictions in which our products and services are available. These requirements, which often differ materially and sometimes conflict among the many jurisdictions in which we operate, are designed to protect the privacy of consumers’ personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. We maintain and review technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements and industry standards, such as the Payment Card Industry (PCI) guidelines. However, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies, third-party agents or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our customers. Any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements that compromises consumer data could expose us to regulatory enforcement actions, limit our ability to provide our products and services, subject us to litigation and damage our reputation. Lack of consumer confidence, whether real or perceived, in our coin-counting machines could harm our business. The accuracy of the coin-counting functionality of our machines is important to consumers and our retailers. The failure to maintain consumer confidence in our technology and systems could harm our business. Our inability to collect the data from our coin-counting machines could lead to a delay in processing coins and crediting the accounts of our retailers for vouchers that have already been redeemed. Any loss or delay in collecting or processing coin data could seriously harm our operations. Our future operating results may fluctuate. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to continue to drive new and repeat consumer utilization of our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment products and services, our ability to 11 Table of Contents develop and commercialize new products and services and the costs incurred to do so, and our ability to successfully integrate new lines of business into our operations, including, for example, money transfer services. Our operating results have a history of fluctuating and may continue to fluctuate based upon many factors, including: • the transaction fee we charge consumers to use our services, including our customers’ response to increased transaction fees for use of certain of our entertainment services equipment, • the amount of service fees that we pay to our retailers, • our ability to establish or maintain relationships with significant retailers on acceptable terms, • the commercial success of our retailers, which could be affected by such factors as severe weather, strikes or general economic conditions, • fluctuations in revenue generated by our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services, • fluctuations in operating expenses caused by various factors, including petroleum costs, labor costs and transportation costs, • our ability to effectively manage the product mix of our entertainment services equipment to maximize consumer preferences, • fluctuations in interest rates, which affects our debt service obligations, • the timing of, and our ability to develop and successfully commercialize, new or enhanced products and services, • the level of product and price competition, • our success in maintaining and expanding our network and managing our growth, • the successful operation of our coin-counting and e-payment network, • activities of and acquisitions or announcements by competitors, • the impact from any impairment of goodwill related to our acquisitions, • fluctuations in consumer spending patterns, and • relationships with manufacturers and suppliers. In addition, we have historically experienced seasonality in our coin services revenue, with highest revenues experienced in the third calendar quarter, followed by the fourth calendar quarter, and relatively lower revenues in the first half of the year. Our entertainment services revenue has also experienced seasonality, with peak revenues in the fourth quarter and periods surrounding the Easter holiday season. Although our entertainment services revenue may offset the historical seasonality of the coin services revenue to some degree, we expect our results of operations will continue to fluctuate both as a result of seasonal fluctuations and our revenue mix between relatively higher margin coin and e-payment services and relatively lower margin entertainment services. We depend upon third-party manufacturers, suppliers and service providers for key components and substantial support for our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services machines and equipment. We conduct limited manufacturing operations and depend on outside parties to manufacture key components of our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services machines and equipment. We intend to continue to expand our installed base for coin-counting and e-payment machines in North America and in the United Kingdom and for entertainment services equipment in the United States and Mexico. Such expansion may be limited by the manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner. If there is 12 Table of Contents an unanticipated increase in demand for coin-counting or e-payment machine or entertainment services equipment installations, we may be unable to meet such demand due to manufacturing constraints. Some key hardware components used in the coin-counting and e-payment machines and entertainment services equipment are obtained from a limited number of suppliers. We may be unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of these components in a timely manner or, if necessary, from alternative sources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of components or to locate alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, we may experience delays in installing or maintaining coin-counting and e-payment machines or entertainment services equipment, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers for substantial support and service efforts that we currently do not provide directly. In particular, we contract with third-party providers to arrange for pick-up, processing and deposit of coins as well as limited servicing of our machines. We generally contract with a single transportation provider and coin processor to service a particular region and either party generally can terminate the contracts with advance notice ranging from 30 to 90 days. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the foreseeable future, the internal capability to provide back-up coin processing service in the event of a sudden disruption in service from a commercial coin processor. Any failure by us to maintain our existing coin processing relationships or to establish new relationships on a timely basis or on acceptable terms could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to substantial federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulation specific to our business. Our business is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulation relating to coins, toy safety, child protection, vehicle safety, access to machines in public places, charitable fundraising, the transfer of money or things of value, currency controls, weights and measures, payment instruments, gaming, sweepstakes, contests, consumer protection, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. The application of existing laws and regulations, changes in or enactment of new laws and regulations that apply or may in the future apply to our current or future products or services, changes in governmental authorities’ interpretation of the application of various government regulations to our business, or the failure or inability to gain and retain required permits and approvals could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, many jurisdictions require us to obtain certain licenses in connection with the operations of our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services. For example, in Washington state, skill-crane machines are subject to the licensing requirements of the Washington State Gambling Commission. Further, we are currently applying for licenses in those states and the District of Columbia which require licenses with regard to provision of some of our e-payment services, including stored value card and money transfer transactions. There can be no assurance that we will be granted all necessary licenses in the future or that current licenses will be renewed. Given the unique nature of our business and new products and services we may develop or acquire in the future, the application of various laws and regulations to our business is uncertain. Further, as governmental and regulatory scrutiny and action with regard to many aspects of our business increase, we expect that our costs of complying with the applicable legal requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, loss of approved status, termination of contracts, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events, as well as the increased cost of compliance, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with conducting our business and sourcing goods internationally. We currently have coin operations in Canada and the United Kingdom. We also have entertainment services equipment operating in Mexico. We expect to continue increasing our deployment of both coin-counting and 13 Table of Contents e-payment machines and entertainment services equipment internationally. In addition, our money transfer services are offered in over 142 countries, and we expect to continue expanding that area of our business over time. Accordingly, political uncertainties, civil unrest, exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, adverse changes in tax, tariff and trade regulations, difficulties with foreign distributors and other difficulties in managing an organization outside the United States could seriously harm the development of our business and ability to operate profitably. Further, as we do business with an increasing number of countries, our business becomes more exposed to the impact of the political and economic uncertainties, including government oversight, of foreign jurisdictions. For example, substantially all of the plush toys and other products dispensed from our entertainment services machines are produced by foreign manufacturers, including a majority purchased directly from manufacturers in China. Further, we purchase other vending products from vendors that obtain a significant percentage of such products from foreign manufacturers. As a result, we are subject to changes in governmental policies, exchange rate fluctuations, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls, transportation delays and interruptions and political and economic disruptions which could disrupt the supply and timely delivery of products manufactured abroad. In addition, we could be affected by labor strikes in the sea shipping, trucking and railroad industries. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to successfully integrate our acquisition of CMT into our operations, which, among other things, requires us to meet additional federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulations. On May 31, 2006, we acquired CMT, a company that is in the business of offering money transfer services. In connection with the acquisition of CMT, we entered into a Transitional Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Travelex Limited (“Travelex”), the seller of CMT. Under the TSA, affiliates of Travelex will continue to operate the money transfer services business in certain jurisdictions, including the United States, until May 31, 2007 or until we obtain any required licenses or approvals in those jurisdictions and the business is transferred to us. Although we are in the process of applying for these licenses, there is no assurance that we will receive all of the required licenses or approvals before May 31, 2007 or thereafter, or that the money transfer services business can be transferred to us in certain jurisdictions, including in the United States. The money transfer industry is heavily regulated, both in the United States and internationally. Travelex and its affiliates are responsible for legal compliance and related risks with respect to the money transfer services business in the United States and certain other jurisdictions under the TSA until the business in those jurisdictions is transferred. If Travelex or its affiliates or its or their employees violate a legal requirement in any of these jurisdictions where they are responsible for legal compliance, including a United States state or federal law or regulation applicable to the money transfer services business, such a violation may delay or preclude the transfer of the business in that jurisdiction to us, or the violation may increase our costs of transferring the business or operating the business after the transfer. As the money transfer services business in the United States is transferred to us, we are becoming increasingly responsible for compliance with a variety of state laws and regulations, including licensing requirements, applicable to the business. In addition, we are becoming increasingly subject to United States federal anti-money laundering laws, including United States Department of the Treasury registration requirements, and the requirements of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit transmitting money to specified countries or to or on behalf of prohibited individuals or entities. If we were to transmit money to or on behalf of, or otherwise conduct business with, a prohibited individual or entity, we could be required to pay significant damages, including fines and penalties. The USA PATRIOT Act mandates several anti-money laundering requirements. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws could lead to significant penalties, and could limit our ability to conduct business in the United States and other jurisdictions. 14 Table of Contents In addition, the money transfer industry is subject to international regulation, which varies from country to country. In certain countries in which we operate, we are required to maintain licenses or other governmental approvals in order to operate this business. As described above, we will be responsible for compliance with these laws and regulatory requirements in those countries subject to the TSA when the money transfer services business in those countries has transferred. Although most countries in which we operate or will operate this business do not regulate this business to the same degree as the United States, this could change in the future. Failure to comply with the laws and government regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate the money transfer services business could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, penalties or other damages, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and/or other civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, additions to or changes in the laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards in the United States or any of the foreign countries in which the money transfer services business operates could also increase our compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems redevelopment, reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete, lead to a loss of agents, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our money transfer service is and will remain reliant on an effective agent network. Substantially all of the money transfer services revenue is generated through an agent network spanning 142 countries. Agents include banks and other financial institutions, regional micro-finance companies, chain stores and local convenience stores. Transaction volumes at existing agent locations often increase over time and new agents provide us with additional revenue. If agents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. Agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent’s dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. In addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including the appearance of competitors close to our agent locations or increased competition. Because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, an agent may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. The failure of the agent network to meet our expectations regarding revenue production and business efficiencies may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, failure, either intentional or unintentional, by our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, including anti-money laundering, consumer privacy and information security restrictions, could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with third parties, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability, as well as damage to our reputation. The occurrence of one or more of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our money transfer services may involve the movement of large sums of money, and, as a result, our business is particularly dependent on our ability to process and settle transactions accurately and efficiently. Our money transfer services involves the movement of large sums of money. Money transfer services revenues consist primarily of transaction fees that are charged for the movement of money. These transaction fees represent only a small fraction of the total amount of money that is moved. Because we are responsible for large sums of money that are substantially greater than the revenues generated, the success of this business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of the money that is remitted and that is used to clear payment instruments or complete money transfers. We rely on the ability of our agents and employees and our operating systems and network to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free 15 Table of Contents manner. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors in our business, including clearing banks which clear our money orders and official checks and certain of our telecommunications providers. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event, security breach, improper operation or any other event impacting our systems or network or our vendors’ systems or processes, or improper action by our agents, employees, or third party vendors, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. Higher petroleum prices may adversely affect our operating results and reduce our profitability. We purchase a substantial amount of goods overseas, particularly plush toys and other products dispensed from our entertainment services machines, resulting in significant transportation-related costs. Petroleum-based resins are used in the manufacture of these products. In addition, we operate a large number of vehicles used by our field service personnel for the purpose of servicing and maintaining our coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services machines. Significant increases in petroleum prices during prior periods have negatively impacted our results of operations. The cost of petroleum is volatile and may increase as a result of natural disasters, political and geopolitical issues or other reasons beyond our control. Further increases in petroleum prices may have an adverse affect on our operating results. Our customers’ ability to access our products and services can be adversely affected by severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as fires, power failures, telecommunications loss and terrorist attacks. Our operational and financial performance is a direct reflection of customer use of and the ability to operate and service the coin-counting, entertainment and e-payment services machines and equipment used in our business. Severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can, for extended periods of time, significantly reduce customer use of our products and services as well as interrupt our own ability to manufacture, operate and service our machines. In some cases, severe weather, natural disasters and other events beyond our control may result in the total loss of machines used to provide our products and services, which losses may not be fully covered by insurance. For example, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States in 2005 caused damage and operational interruptions to some of the retail and other locations where our machines are installed. Acquisitions and investments involve risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from such acquisitions and investments. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past sought and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business. For example, in December 2005, we made an investment to acquire a 47.3% interest in Redbox, a provider of self-service DVD kiosks, with the ability under certain circumstances to obtain a majority interest, and in May 2006, we purchased the money transfer services business as described above. However, we may be unable to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by such acquisitions or investments, which could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of the acquisitions and investments. Further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions and investments, as well as the integration of an acquired business, will divert management time and other resources. In addition, we cannot assure you that any particular transaction, even if successfully completed, will ultimately benefit our business. Certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions and investments that may have a material impact on our business are: • use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions and investments, • stockholder dilution if an acquisition is consummated through an issuance of our securities, • amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences, • costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on potential targets that may or may not be successful, 16 Table of Contents • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems or personnel of an acquired company, • managing relationships with other investors and the companies in which we have made investments, • impairment of relationships with employees, retailers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business, • the assumption of known and unknown liabilities of an acquired company, including employee and intellectual property claims, • entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience, and • impairment of goodwill arising from our acquisitions and investments. Recall of any of the products dispensed by our entertainment services machines or by the entertainment services industry generally could adversely affect our entertainment services business. Our entertainment services machines, and the entertainment services industry generally, are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities. The toys and other products dispensed from our entertainment services machines could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by regulatory authorities. Concerns about product safety may lead us to voluntarily recall or discontinue offering selected products. Defects in any of our products distributed through our entertainment services machines could result in the rejection of our entertainment services products by consumers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, potential inventory valuation write-downs, excess inventory, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs, any of which could harm our business. Any such errors, defects or recalls may not be covered by insurance or cause our insurance costs to increase in future periods. We may be subject to product liability claims if property or people are harmed by our products and services. Some of the products we sell, especially through our entertainment services machines, may expose us to product liability claims arising from personal injury, death or property damage. Any such product liability claim may result in adverse publicity regarding us, our entertainment service machines and the products we sell. Even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses and our management could be required to spend valuable time in defending against these claims. Our vendors may not indemnify us against product liability. There is a risk that such claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage and we cannot be certain that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Any imposition of product liability could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Litigation, regulatory actions or investigations could result in material rulings, settlements, fines, penalties or publicity that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, the subject of class actions, regulatory actions, investigations and other litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions, investigations or other litigation is often difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs or regulatory bodies may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts of money or substantial restrictions on our business activities, and the results, including the magnitude, of lawsuits, actions and investigations may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to settle or defend lawsuits, regulatory actions, investigations or other litigation may be significant. For example, we recorded a $1.6 million charge for the proposed settlement of a recently filed lawsuit alleging wage and hour violations under the California labor code. We believe the lawsuit originated primarily from employment practices of acquired entertainment companies prior to us buying them. In addition, there may be adverse publicity associated with such legal developments that could decrease customer acceptance of our products and services. As a result, litigation, regulatory actions or investigations involving us or are affiliates may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering in July 1997. For example, during the twelve months ended February 16, 2007, the sale price of our common stock ranged from $21.60 to $34.40 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the termination, non-renewal or re-negotiation of one or more retailer relationships, • operating results below market expectations and changes in, or our failure to meet, financial estimates of securities analysts or our own guidance, • trends and fluctuations in the use of our coin, entertainment and e-payment services, • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, • release of analyst reports, • announcements regarding the establishment, modification or termination of relationships regarding the development of new or enhanced products and services, • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors, • ineffective internal controls, • industry developments, and • economic or other external factors. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also seriously harm the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition and results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud. Inherent in our business, which is primarily cash driven, is the risk of theft and fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent or detect fraud could harm our business. We continue to evaluate our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and our auditors to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition or results. Our anti-takeover mechanisms may affect the price of our common stock and make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and depress the market price of our stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any acquirer of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, Washington law may impose additional restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any acquirer of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if the offer from a third party may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 18 Table of Contents 