Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. See the information under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements” in Item 1 — “Business”. We emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in August 2003, have sustained losses in the past and may not be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis. Because we emerged from bankruptcy on August 1, 2003 and have incurred losses in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis in the future. We have sought protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code twice since 1985, most recently in November 2000. We emerged from our more recent Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization as a new reporting entity on August 1, 2003. Prior to and during this reorganization, we incurred substantial net losses. We reported a net loss of $39.0 million for the five months ended December 31, 2003 following our emergence from bankruptcy, net income of $62.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, a net loss of $33.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and net income of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. If we cannot achieve profitability on a consistent basis, our liquidity may be adversely affected and threaten our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to comply with our financial covenants, which may result in a default under our credit agreements. We are subject to certain financial covenants contained in our credit agreements. Our term loan agreement required us to maintain certain leverage, interest coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In March 2006, our term loan lenders and the Loan Board agreed to waive compliance with these ratios through the quarter ending June 30, 2007. Through March 16, 2007, the term loan agreement, as amended, required us to maintain minimum borrowing availability of at least $50.0 million under our revolving credit facility at all times or to maintain a minimum fixed charge ratio. Our revolving credit facility also required us to maintain minimum borrowing availability of at least $50.0 million at all times or to comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. On March 16, 2007, the revolving credit agreement was amended to allow us to access collateral in excess of the $225.0 million commitment under the facility. If the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio is not met by us at the end of any quarter and excess collateral, as defined by the agreement, is available, we will be able to access up to $45.0 million of such excess collateral over and above the $225.0 million commitment amount and we will be required to maintain at least $50.0 million of borrowing availability at all times. Provided that sufficient collateral will support such borrowings, we will be permitted to borrow up to $220.0 million under the facility. The incremental amount of 16 Table of Contents borrowing availability of up to $45.0 million will decrease by $5.0 million each quarter commencing with the fourth quarter of 2007 through the second quarter of 2008, and will be limited, thereafter, to up to $25.0 million through, but not beyond, November 1, 2008. On this date and thereafter, the previous requirement that we maintain minimum borrowing availability of $50.0 million at all times without access to collateral beyond the $225.0 million amount of the facility, or to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, will again be applicable. The amendment also provides for lender approval for the issuance of $50.0 million of convertible debt and an increase in the annual amount of permitted capital expenditures. Effective March 16, 2007, the term loan agreement was amended to waive compliance with the requirement to maintain minimum borrowing availability of $50.0 million at all times or to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The agreement was further amended to eliminate the leverage and interest coverage ratios for the duration of the agreement. In place of these covenants, a standalone fixed charge coverage ratio will take effect for the second quarter of 2008 and thereafter. To effect the amendment, we agreed to use the proceeds from the issuance of $50.0 million of convertible debt to make a principal prepayment of $37.5 million under our term loan agreement, representing satisfaction of the next six quarterly principal payments due under the term loan agreement and to use the remaining proceeds for general corporate purposes. We also agreed to amend the existing $12.5 million standby letter of credit, previously posted in favor of the term loan lenders, to $11.0 million to cover interest payment obligations to April 1, 2007. The letter of credit will decline as such interest payments are made. The term loan lenders and Loan Board also agreed to waive the excess cash flow mandatory repayment provisions of the agreement, increase the annual amount of permitted capital expenditures for 2007 and 2008, increase the amount of permitted indebtedness, and provide various administrative amendments with regard to activities related to MSC. The amendment also provides authorization for us to merge with Esmark. As part of the amendment, we also agreed, subject to consummation of the merger with Esmark, to repay or refinance the term loan in full on the later of April 1, 2008 or the date of such consummation and to release the Loan Board of any further obligation under the Federal guarantee as well as the West Virginia Housing Development Fund, the State guarantor, of any further obligation under the state guarantee. In the event that the merger with Esmark is not consummated, we agreed to change the final maturity date of the loan from August 1, 2014 to August 1, 2010. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants will depend on our future financial performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default or an event of default, permitting the lenders to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness under the credit agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing our indebtedness. In the event that additional modifications or waivers are necessary under our credit agreements, and these additional modifications and waivers are not obtained by us, an event of default will occur. If the event of default results in an acceleration of our term loan or our revolving credit facility, such event would also result in the acceleration of substantially all of our other indebtedness pursuant to cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If the indebtedness under our term loan, the revolving credit facility and our other debt instruments were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. In addition, if we fail to reasonably demonstrate compliance with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreements and we receive a going-concern opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our annual audited financial statements, such failure will constitute an event of default under our credit agreements. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our flexibility and our ability to implement our business plan. Our credit agreements contain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including, but not limited to, provisions that limit our ability to make capital expenditures, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, make investments, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, our debt instruments may not provide us with sufficient flexibility to permit us to make all necessary capital expenditures and take other measures that we believe are necessary to run our business effectively and to achieve our business plan. If we are unable to make necessary capital expenditures as a result of these covenants, our competitive position could be adversely affected which could ultimately affect our financial performance. We may not be viable as a stand alone company if we are unable to find a strategic partner. We believe for us to be viable as a stand alone company that we need to find a strategic partner, including Esmark, or if that merger fails, another strategic partner, in order to achieve benefits such as economies of scale, greater access to markets for our products, greater access to raw materials, or greater access to financial resources. 17 Table of Contents Because we are significantly leveraged, we may not be able to successfully run our business, service our debt obligations or refinance our indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged. Because we are significantly leveraged, it may be difficult for us to successfully run our business and to generate sufficient amounts for necessary capital expenditures. In addition, if we do not generate sufficient operating cash flow, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2006, our current assets totaled $400.5 million, including $212.2 million of inventory, and our current liabilities totaled $327.5 million. As of December 31, 2006, our total indebtedness was $397.1 million and total shareholders’ equity was $286.2 million. Based on our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2006, we expect that our total debt service obligations (including scheduled principal and interest payments and an $18.7 million prepayment under our term loan agreement for scheduled principal payments originally due in 2008) will approximate $77.8 million (assuming a blended interest rate of 6.8% per annum) in 2007 and that our debt service obligations related to variable interest rate debt will increase $2.5 million on an annual basis for each 1.0% increase in interest rates. Our ability to meet our ongoing debt service obligations will depend on our ability to successfully run our business, including the successful operation of our EAF, and a number of other factors, including factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to repay, when due or earlier if accelerated due to an event of default, the principal amounts outstanding under our primary credit facilities which have a final maturity as early as 2008 in the case of our term loan and 2009 in the case of our revolving credit facility. We expect that we will be required to refinance such amounts as they become due and payable; however, we may not be able to consummate such refinancing to repay our obligations or to secure a refinancing on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to refinance all or any significant portion of our indebtedness, we may be required to sell assets or equity interests in our company. However, we may not be able to sell assets or equity interests in an amount sufficient to repay our obligations or on terms satisfactory to us. Our leverage, together with the restrictions imposed by our credit agreements, may limit our ability to obtain additional financing and to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, this leverage increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic and steel industry conditions. Intense competition in the steel industry and substitute materials could adversely affect our results of operations, and ultimately, our liquidity, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Competition within the steel industry, both domestic and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so in the future. We compete with domestic steel producers, steel processors, mini-mills and foreign importers. Mini-mills typically enjoy certain competitive advantages, such as more variable raw material costs that tend to rise and fall in tandem with steel selling prices, non-unionized work forces with lower employment costs and more flexible work rules, and lower ongoing maintenance and capital expenditure needs for construction and operation of their steel-making facilities. Additionally, mini-mills now compete with integrated producers in virtually all product lines, which has provided a competitive alternative to most of the steel products that we produce. Furthermore, many of our competitors have superior financial resources or more favorable cost structures, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, it is also possible that competitive pressures resulting from the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our growth and profit margins. Moreover, steel products may be replaced to a certain extent by other substitute materials, such as plastic, aluminum, graphite, composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. Our competitors may be successful in capturing our market share, and we may be required to reduce selling prices in order to compete. Reduced selling prices could adversely impact our results of operations and, ultimately, our liquidity, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Increased imports from China or other countries could lower domestic steel prices and adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow. We sell steel almost exclusively in the U.S. market. The domestic steel market is affected by factors influencing worldwide supply and demand, with excess global production generally seeking the most lucrative markets. In particular, the balance of supply and productive capacity in China may result in increased imports to the U.S. market. During several years prior to 2003, favorable conditions in the U.S. market compared to the global markets resulted in significant imports of steel and substantially reduced sales, margins and profitability of domestic steel producers, leading to imposition of import quotas and tariffs under Section 201 of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, as amended. In 2004, the convergence of the weakened U.S. dollar, increased demand for steel and raw materials in China and other developing countries, and higher raw material and ocean freight costs, led to substantial increases in steel selling prices, even though the Section 201 tariffs were lifted in December 2003. Total and finished imports for 2006, as compared to 2005, increased by approximately 42%. Changes in the U.S. 18 Table of Contents dollar exchange rate, a decrease in demand for foreign steel in China and certain other developing countries, improved domestic steel production in those countries, lower ocean freight costs and other factors could lead to sustained high, or even higher, levels of imports in the future resulting in excess domestic steel capacity and lower prices for our products, and may have an adverse affect on our revenue, profitability and cash flow. The cyclical nature of the industries we serve may cause significant fluctuations in the demand for our products and lead to periods of decreased demand. Demand for most of our products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. Our business supports cyclical industries such as the appliance and construction industries. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales are made at prevailing market prices rather than under long-term agreements, which we define as contracts exceeding three months. As a result, downturns in the U.S. or global economies or in any of the industries we support could adversely affect the demand for and selling prices of steel, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to sustain our level of total revenue or rate of revenue growth, if any, on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that, in some future quarters, our operating results may fall below our targets and the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. We may be unsuccessful in increasing the production of our electric arc furnace, which would adversely affect our near-term and long-term financial performance. Our business plan depends, in part, on the successful operation of, and an increase in production from, our EAF. Our inability to successfully manage the operation of the EAF and to increase production at the EAF could make it difficult to implement our long-term business strategy and could have an adverse effect on our near-term and long-term financial performance. From November 20, 2006 through January 31, 2007, we discontinued operating our EAF to conserve cash. As a result of excess inventory at steel service centers leading to a decrease in demand for steel products, we decided to produce hot metal using our blast furnace and basic oxygen furnace, utilizing raw materials on hand, rather than operate our EAF which would have required additional outlays for the purchase of scrap. The EAF was restarted in February 1, 2007. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of steel slabs could adversely affect our production and sale of steel products or increase our costs. In February 2006, we completed installation of hot strip mill automatic roll changers at our primary steel-making facility. As a result, we increased our hot rolling capacity from 2.8 million tons per year to 3.4 million tons per year. Our business plan depends, in part, on increasing the production and sale of steel products. Our inability to successfully source steel slabs from third party suppliers could adversely affect the volume of our steel production and the sale of steel products and an increase in the cost of third party steel slabs could adversely affect our cost to produce steel, both of which could have an adverse effect on profitability, liquidity and financial condition. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in cost, of raw materials and energy could materially increase our costs and adversely impact our cash flow and liquidity. Our operations depend heavily on various raw materials and energy resources, including iron ore, coal used in our coke plant joint venture, scrap, steel slabs, zinc, electricity, natural gas and certain other gases. The availability of raw materials and energy resources could decrease and their prices may be volatile as a result of, among other things, changes in overall supply and demand levels and new laws or regulations. Any disruption in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources may impair, at least temporarily, our ability to manufacture some of our products, or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials from other sources. In the event our raw material and energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or in part. Any increases in the prices for raw materials or energy resources may materially increase our costs and lower our earnings and adversely impact our cash flow and liquidity. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial portion of our raw material needs, such as iron ore, and scrap, as well as metallurgical coal for our coke plant joint venture, all of which are required to meet certain technical specifications. Any failure of these suppliers to meet our needs for any reason could have an adverse effect on our financial results and operating performance. During 2003 through 2006, we experienced disruptions 19 Table of Contents in the supply of coal from our two largest suppliers. This led to depleted coal inventory levels, which substantially increased costs to purchase metallurgical coal from alternative sources, adversely affecting our operating results. Additional disruptions would cause our coke plant joint venture to purchase additional coal on the spot market, which may increase our coke costs and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have also experienced, and continue to experience, problems associated with the supply of scrap from our long-term scrap supplier. We believe that we have access to alternative supplies of scrap, if necessary. We rely on a core group of significant customers for a substantial portion of our net sales, and a reduction in demand, or inability to pay, from this group could adversely affect our total revenue. Although we have a large number of customers, sales to our two largest customers, our Wheeling-Nisshin and OCC joint ventures, accounted for approximately 18.5% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 22.0% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. Sales to our 10 largest customers, including to Wheeling-Nisshin and OCC, accounted for 38.6 % of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 40.3% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. We are likely to continue to depend upon a core group of customers for a material percentage of our net sales in the future. Our significant customers may not order steel products from us in the future or may reduce or delay the amount of steel products ordered. Any reduction or delay in orders could negatively impact our revenues. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay us for the steel products provided, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to implement our business plan because we may be unable to fund the substantial ongoing capital and maintenance expenditures that our operations require. Our operations are capital intensive. We require capital for, among other purposes, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our business plan provides that capital expenditures for the three-year period ending December 31, 2009 will aggregate approximately $169.0 million, excluding capital expenditures to be made to complete the refurbishment of the coke plant facility that we contributed to our coke plant joint venture, MSC. We may not be able to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow and from the proceeds of borrowings available for capital expenditures under our credit facilities. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may be unable to implement our business plan, and our financial performance may be adversely impacted. A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of our facilities could increase our production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. Our steel-making facilities may experience interruptions or major accidents and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God, terrorism, accidents and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility would reduce the production from that facility, which could substantially impair our business. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. In addition to the revenue losses, longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. To the extent these events are not covered by insurance, our revenues, margins and cash flows may be adversely impacted by events of this type. Our production costs may increase and we may not be able to sustain our sales and earnings if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. A majority of our hourly employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USW that expires on September 1, 2008. The final rate increase of 3.0% under the existing contract is scheduled for March 31, 2007. Of our total employees, approximately 79.9% are unionized, including 77.2% of which are members of the USW. Any potential strikes or work stoppages in the future, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, other steel producers may have or may be able to negotiate labor agreements that provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, many mini-mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, the USW has the unilateral right to veto any merger or other transaction that constitutes a change in control of WPC, as defined by the collective bargaining agreement, unless the party gaining such control enters into a new collective bargaining agreement with the USW as a part of the transaction. 20 Table of Contents Our senior management also work for another company whose interests may be different from ours. James P. Bouchard, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Craig T. Bouchard, our President, also serve as Chairman of the Board and President, respectively, of Esmark, a steel services company. Our Board of Directors, pursuant to the Company’s Ethics Code, authorized and approved the continued roles of Jim and Craig Bouchard in the operation and management of Esmark. Because the Company and Esmark may be engaged in the same, similar or related lines of business, our interests may differ from those of Esmark. Our Board of Directors has adopted guidelines to be used in conducting commercial business with Esmark to address potential conflicts of interest. To date we do not believe that we have been negatively impacted by the other positions held by Jim or Craig Bouchard. Delays or transition issues in implementing changes under new executive management could adversely impact the Company. As a result of our new Board of Directors and executive management, we are in the process of reviewing and implementing changes to our operations and commercial activities, as well as changes to human resources, information technology, financial services and outside vendors. We may encounter delays or transition issues in implementing these changes which could have an adverse effect on our business. Environmental compliance and remediation costs could decrease our net cash flow, reduce our results of operations and impair our financial condition. Our business and our ownership of real property are subject to numerous Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws are constantly evolving and have become increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. We incur substantial capital expenditures and other costs to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Federal Clean Air Act and the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and future developments under these or other laws could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. Additionally, future decisions to terminate operations at any of our facilities may result in facility closure and cleanup costs. In addition, if we are unable to comply with environmental regulations, we may incur fines or penalties or may be required to cease some operations. We are involved in a number of environmental remediation projects relating to our facilities and operations, and may in the future become involved in more remediation projects. While we reserve for costs relating to such projects when the costs are probable and estimable, those reserves may need to be adjusted as new information becomes available, whether from third parties, new environmental laws or otherwise. Increases in our healthcare costs for active employees and future retirees may lower our earnings and negatively affect our competitive position in the industry. We maintain defined benefit retiree healthcare plans covering all active union represented employees upon their retirement. We also provide medical benefits for qualified retired salaried employees until they reach the age of 65. Healthcare benefits for active employees and future retirees are provided through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions or through health maintenance organizations, both the subject of various cost-sharing features. These benefits are provided for the most part based on fixed amounts negotiated in labor contracts with the appropriate unions. Additionally, mini-mills, foreign competitors and many producers of products that compete with steel typically provide lesser benefits to their employees and retirees, and this difference in cost could adversely impact our competitive position. If our costs under our benefit programs for active employees and future retirees exceed our projections, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. You may not be able to compare our historical financial information to our current financial information, which will make it more difficult to evaluate an investment in our company. As a result of the completion of our reorganization plan, we are operating our business under a new capital structure. In addition, we adopted fresh-start reporting in accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 90-7, as of July 31, 2003. Because SOP 90-7 required us to account for our assets and liabilities at their then-current fair values, our financial condition and results of operations after our reorganization are not comparable in some material respects to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements for periods prior to August 1, 2003. This may make it difficult to assess our future prospects based on historical performance. 21 Table of Contents Certain U.S. Federal income tax considerations may increase the amount of taxes we pay which could adversely affect our liquidity and reduce profitability. Based on information available to us, we believe that we underwent an “ownership change” pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in the second quarter of 2006. As a result, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryovers to reduce taxable income in 2006 and subsequent years will be subject to statutory limitations on an annual basis. Our net operating loss carryover as of December 31, 2005 approximated $344.1 million. We estimate that our ability to offset post-ownership change taxable income will be limited to approximately $4.0 million to $5.0 million in 2006 and $8.0 million to $10.0 million for years subsequent to 2006. We believe that there are built-in gains inherent in the value of our assets that, when and if realized, may increase this annual limitation during the five-year period from the date of the ownership change. We are currently assessing the extent of these built-in gains. There can be no assurance that these built-in gains, if any, will be realized. The annual limitation on our net operating loss carryforwards that can be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income could adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow, and reduce profitability. Future sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has a limited trading market and is held by a concentrated number of investors, including the Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation Retiree Benefits Plan Trust (VEBA trust). As a result, sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any increase in the selling volume of shares of our common stock, including sales by our significant stockholders, such as the VEBA trust or others, also may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, include, among other things, failure to consummate a merger with Esmark, low trading volume of our common stock, quarterly variations of our financial results, the nature and content of our earnings releases and our competitors’ earnings releases, developments in the steel industry, including those impacting worldwide supply of, and demand for, steel products, such as governmental regulation and market conditions affecting the demand for steel in China, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, business conditions in our market and the general state of the securities industry, governmental legislation and regulation, as well as general economic and market conditions. As a result, you could lose all or a part of your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 