Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. See the information under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements” in Item 1 — “Business”. We emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in August 2003, incurred a current-period loss and have sustained losses in the past, and may not be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis. Because we emerged from bankruptcy on August 1, 2003, incurred a current-period loss and have incurred losses in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis in the future. We have sought protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code twice since 1985, most recently in November 2000. We emerged from our more recent Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization as a new reporting entity on August 1, 2003. Prior to and during this reorganization, we incurred substantial net losses. We reported a net loss of $39.0 million for the five months ended December 31, 2003 following our emergence from bankruptcy and a net loss of $34.0 million in 2005. If we cannot achieve profitability on a consistent basis, our liquidity may be adversely affected and threaten our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to comply with our financial covenants, which may result in a default under our credit agreements. We are subject to certain financial covenants contained in our credit agreements. Our term loan agreement requires us to maintain certain leverage, interest coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In March 2006, our term loan lenders and the Loan Board agreed to waive compliance with these ratios through the quarter ending June 30, 2007. Our amended and restated revolving credit facility and our recently amended term loan agreement require us to maintain at least $50 million of borrowing availability at all times under our revolving credit facility or to comply with a specified fixed charge coverage ratio if our borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility falls below $50.0 million at any point in time. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants will depend on our future financial performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default or an event of default, permitting the lenders to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness under the credit agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing our indebtedness. Any default, event of default or acceleration of our indebtedness under our term loan would also result in the acceleration of substantially all of our other indebtedness pursuant to cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. On March 10, 2006, we reached an agreement with both the lenders under our term loan agreement and the Loan Board, the Federal loan guarantor, to waive compliance with the leverage, interest coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under our term loan agreement through the quarter ending June 30, 2007. In the event that additional modifications or waivers are necessary and these additional modifications and waivers are not obtained by us, and if we are unable to refinance our term loan, an event of default under the term loan agreement will occur and subsequently will constitute an event of default under the amended and restated revolving credit agreement. If the event of default results in acceleration of the term loan, we would be in default under substantially all of our other debt instruments. If the indebtedness under our term loan, the revolving credit facility and our other debt instruments were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments limit our flexibility and our ability to implement our business plan. Our credit agreements contain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including, but not limited to, provisions that limit our ability to make capital expenditures, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, make investments, sell assets and enter into transaction with affiliates. In addition, our debt instruments may not provide us with sufficient flexibility to permit us to make all necessary capital expenditures and take other measures that we believe are necessary to run our business effectively and to achieve our business plan. If we are unable to make necessary capital expenditures as a result of these covenants, our competitive position could be adversely affected which could ultimately affect our financial performance. 16 Table of Contents Because we are significantly leveraged, we may not be able to implement our business plan, service our debt obligations or refinance our indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged. Because we are significantly leveraged, it may be difficult for us to successfully implement our business plan and to generate sufficient amounts for necessary capital expenditures. In addition, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations if we do not generate sufficient operating cash flow. As of December 31, 2005, our current assets totaled $329.8 million, including $166.6 million of inventory, and our current liabilities totaled $259.9 million. As of December 31, 2005, our total indebtedness was $332.8 million and total shareholders’ equity was $265.5 million. Based on our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2005, we expect that our total debt service obligations (including scheduled principal and interest payments) will approximate $54.7 million (assuming a blended interest rate of 6.8% per annum) in 2006 and that our debt service obligations related to variable interest rate debt will increase $1.0 million on an annual basis for each 1.0% increase in interest rates. Our ability to meet our ongoing debt service obligations will depend on our ability to implement our business plan, including the successful completion of the ramp-up of our EAF, and a number of other factors, including factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to repay, when due or earlier if accelerated due to an event of default, the principal amounts outstanding under our credit facilities which have a final maturity as early as 2008 in the case of our term loan and 2009 in the case of our revolving credit facility. We expect that we will be required to refinance such amounts as they become due and payable; however, we may not be able to consummate such refinancing to repay our obligations or to secure a refinancing on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to refinance all or any significant portion of our indebtedness, we may be required to sell assets or equity interests in our company. However, we may not be able to sell assets or equity interests in an amount sufficient to repay our obligations or on terms satisfactory to us. Our leverage, together with the restrictions imposed by our credit agreements, may limit our ability to obtain additional financing and to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, this leverage increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic and steel industry conditions. Intense competition in the steel industry and substitute materials could adversely affect our profitability. Competition within the steel industry, both domestic and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so in the future. We compete with domestic steel producers, steel processors, mini-mills and foreign importers. Mini-mills typically enjoy certain competitive advantages, such as more variable raw material costs that tend to rise and fall in tandem with steel selling prices, non-unionized work forces with lower employment costs and more flexible work rules, and lower ongoing maintenance and capital expenditure needs for construction and operation of their steel-making facilities. Additionally, the domestic mini-mills have increased the quality of their steel products in recent years, which has provided a competitive alternative to most of the steel products that we produce. Furthermore, many of our competitors have superior financial resources or more favorable cost structures, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, it is also possible that competitive pressures resulting from the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our growth and profit margins. Moreover, steel products may be replaced to a certain extent by other substitute materials, such as plastic, aluminum, graphite, composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. Our competitors may be successful in capturing our market share, and we may be required to reduce selling prices in order to compete. Reduced selling prices could adversely impact our results of operations and, ultimately, our liquidity. Increased imports from China or other countries could lower domestic steel prices and adversely affect our profitability. We sell steel almost exclusively in the U.S. market. The domestic steel market is affected by factors influencing worldwide supply and demand, with excess global production generally seeking the most lucrative markets. In particular, the balance of supply and productive capacity in China may result in increased imports to the U.S. market. During several years prior to 2003, favorable conditions in the U.S. market compared to the global markets resulted in significant imports of steel and substantially reduced sales, margins and profitability of domestic steel producers, leading to imposition of import quotas and tariffs under Section 201 of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, as amended. In 2004, the convergence of the weakened U.S. dollar, increased demand for steel and raw materials in China and other developing countries, and higher raw material and ocean freight costs, led to substantial increases in steel selling prices, even though the Section 201 tariffs were lifted in December 2003. Although total and finished imports for 2005, as compared to 2004, decreased by approximately 11.3%, changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate, a decrease in demand for foreign steel in China or certain other developing countries, 17 Table of Contents improved domestic steel production in those countries, lower ocean freight costs and other factors could lead to increased imports in the future resulting in excess domestic steel capacity and lower prices for our products and may have an adverse affect on our revenue, profitability and cash flow. We may be unsuccessful in the final ramp-up to full operation of our electric arc furnace, which would adversely affect our business prospects and competitive position in the industry. Our business plan depends, in part, upon the successful completion of the ramp-up of our EAF and our transformation from a conventional integrated steel producer to a hybrid steel producer with characteristics of both an integrated producer and a mini-mill. Our inability to successfully manage the operation of our EAF could make it difficult to implement our long-term business strategy and could have an adverse effect on near-term financial performance. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials and energy could materially increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. Our operations depend heavily on various raw materials and energy resources, including iron ore, coal used in our coke plant joint venture, scrap, electricity, natural gas and certain other gases. The availability of raw materials and energy resources could decrease and their prices may be volatile as a result of, among other things, changes in overall supply and demand levels and new laws or regulations. Any disruption in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources may impair, at least temporarily, our ability to manufacture some of our products, or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials from other sources. In the event our raw material and energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or in part. Any increases in the prices for raw materials or energy resources may materially increase our costs and lower our earnings and adversely impact our cash flow and liquidity. Additionally, certain of our supply contracts are for fixed prices. Although we currently benefit from some of these supply contracts because spot prices exceed contractually specified prices, if market prices for these raw materials decline, we may not be able to take advantage of decreasing market prices, and our profit margins may be adversely affected. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial portion of our raw material needs, such as iron ore, scrap and metallurgical coal for our coke plant joint venture meeting our technical specifications. Any failure of these suppliers to meet our needs for any reason could have an adverse effect on our financial results and operating performance. During 2003, 2004 and 2005, we have experienced disruptions in the supply of coal from our two largest suppliers. This led to depleted coal inventory levels, which substantially increased costs to purchase metallurgical coal from alternative sources, adversely affecting our operating results. Additional disruptions would cause our coke plant joint venture to purchase additional coal on the spot market, which may increase our coke costs and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We rely on a core group of significant customers for a substantial portion of our net sales, and a reduction in demand, or inability to pay, from this group could adversely affect our total revenue. Although we have a large number of customers, sales to our two largest customers, our Wheeling-Nisshin and OCC joint ventures, accounted for approximately 22.0% of our sales during 2005. Sales to our 10 largest customers, including to Wheeling-Nisshin and OCC, accounted for 40.3% of our net sales during 2005. We are likely to continue to depend upon a core group of customers for a material percentage of our net sales in the future. Our significant customers may not order steel products from us in the future or may reduce or delay the amount of steel products ordered. Any reduction or delay in orders could negatively impact our revenues. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay us for the steel products provided, our results of operations would be adversely affected. The cyclical nature of the industries we serve may cause significant fluctuations in the demand for our products and lead to periods of decreased demand. Demand for most of our products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. Our business supports cyclical industries such as the appliance and construction industries. In addition, approximately 75% of our sales are made at prevailing market prices rather than long-term agreements, which we define as contracts exceeding three months. As a result, downturns in the U.S. or global economies or in any of the industries we 18 Table of Contents support could adversely affect the demand for and selling prices of steel, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to sustain our level of total revenue or rate of revenue growth, if any, on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that, in some future quarters, our operating results may fall below our targets and the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. We may not be able to implement our business plan because we may be unable to fund the substantial ongoing capital and maintenance expenditures that our operations require. Our operations are capital intensive. We require capital for, among other purposes, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our business plan provides that capital expenditures for the three-year period ending December 31, 2008 will aggregate approximately $211.2 million. This amount includes $77.2 million for the refurbishment of the coke plant facility contributed to MSC ($60.0 million of which will be contributed to MSC by our joint venture partner), $5.7 million for cold mill improvements at our Allenport facility, expected to be completed in 2008 and $1.5 million for installation of hot strip mill automatic roll changers at our Mingo Junction facility, completed in February 2006. We may not be able to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow and from the proceeds of borrowings available for capital expenditures under our credit facilities. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may be unable to implement our business plan, and our financial performance may be adversely impacted. A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of our facilities could increase our production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. Our steel making facilities may experience interruptions or major accidents and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God, terrorism, accidents and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility would reduce the production from that facility, which could substantially impair our business. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. In addition to the revenue losses, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers. To the extent these events are not covered by insurance, our revenues, margins and cash flows may be adversely impacted by events of this type. In December 2004, our steelmaking operations were adversely affected by an incident involving the collapse of ductwork at our basic oxygen furnace facility. Production from the basic oxygen furnace was curtailed for 12 days following the incident, resulting in the loss of approximately 10,000 tons of shipments in the fourth quarter of 2004, and approximately 85,000 tons of shipments in the first quarter of 2005, which resulted in a business interruption claim for an amount in excess of $40 million. Our production costs may increase and we may not be able to sustain our sales and earnings if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. A majority of our hourly employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USW that expires on September 1, 2008. Of our total employees, approximately 81.9% are unionized, including 79.5% of which are members of the USW. Any potential strikes or work stoppages in the future, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, other steel producers may have or may be able to negotiate labor agreements that provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, many mini-mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Environmental compliance and remediation costs could decrease our net cash flow, reduce our results of operations and impair our financial condition. Our business and our ownership of real property are subject to numerous Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws are constantly evolving and have become increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. We incur substantial capital expenditures and other costs to comply with these environmental 19 Table of Contents laws and regulations, particularly the Federal Clean Air Act and the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and future developments under these or other laws could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. Additionally, future decisions to terminate operations at any of our facilities may result in facility closure and cleanup costs. In addition, if we are unable to comply with environmental regulations, we may incur fines or penalties or may be required to cease some operations. We incurred $7.4 million for environmental capital expenditures during 2005. Additional operational costs of complying with environmental laws are included in costs of goods sold. In addition, environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $17.5 million in the aggregate for the years 2006 through 2008. If any of these costs exceed our projections, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. We are involved in a number of environmental remediation projects relating to our facilities and operations, and may in the future become involved in more remediation projects. While we reserve for costs relating to such projects when the costs are probable and estimable, those reserves may need to be adjusted as new information becomes available, whether from third parties, new environmental laws or otherwise. Accrued environmental liabilities totaled $9.9 million as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we consider it reasonably possible that we could ultimately incur additional liabilities relative to our environmental exposures of up to $5.0 million. Increases in our healthcare costs for active employees and future retirees may lower our earnings and negatively affect our competitive position in the industry. We maintain defined benefit retiree healthcare plans covering all active union represented employees upon their retirement. We also provide medical benefits for qualified retired salaried employees until they reach the age of 65. Healthcare benefits for active employees and future retirees are provided through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions or through health maintenance organizations, both the subject of various cost-sharing features. These benefits are provided for the most part based on fixed amounts negotiated in labor contracts with the appropriate unions. Additionally, mini-mills, foreign competitors and many producers of products that compete with steel typically provide lesser benefits to their employees and retirees, and this difference in cost could adversely impact our competitive position. If our costs under our benefit programs for active employees and future retirees exceed our projections, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and may sustain a loss of public confidence if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our auditor attest to such evaluation on an annual basis. Compliance with these requirements has been expensive and time-consuming. While we have complied with the regulatory requirements for the year ended December 31, 2005, no assurance can be given that we will do so in future years. If we fail to satisfactorily conclude this evaluation, or if our auditors cannot attest to our evaluation, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. You may not be able to compare our historical financial information to our current financial information, which will make it more difficult to evaluate an investment in our company. As a result of the completion of our reorganization plan, we are operating our business under a new capital structure. In addition, we adopted fresh-start reporting in accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 90-7, as of July 31, 2003. Because SOP 90-7 required us to account for our assets and liabilities at their then-current fair values, our financial condition and results of operations after our reorganization are not comparable in some material respects to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements for periods prior to August 1, 2003. This may make it difficult to assess our future prospects based on historical performance. Certain U.S. federal income tax considerations may increase the amount of taxes we pay which could adversely affect our liquidity and reduce profitability. We believe that as a result of the issuance of our stock to certain debtors pursuant to our plan of reorganization, effective as of August 1, 2003, we underwent an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal 20 Table of Contents Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Generally, subject to certain exceptions, Section 382 of the Code does not limit the net operating loss (“NOL”) carryovers of a company that has an ownership change as a result of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization; however, if a company undergoes a subsequent ownership change within two years following the bankruptcy reorganization, the company loses the ability to use any NOL carryovers for all losses generated before the second ownership change. If we have undergone a second ownership change within two years after August 1, 2003, our ability to utilize our NOL carryovers, including losses incurred after August 1, 2003, will be completely eliminated. Based on information available to us, we do not believe that an ownership change occurred during this two-year period. Our NOL carryovers totaled approximately $325 million as of December 31, 2005. The elimination of our ability to use our NOL carryovers may increase the amount of taxes we pay in the future which could adversely affect our liquidity and our cash flow, and reduce profitability. Further, even if we did not undergo an ownership change during the two-year period following August 1, 2003, any significant sale of securities could result in an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, which will impose a limitation on the amount of NOL carryovers that we can use on an annual basis in future years, which may increase the amount of taxes we may pay in the future. Future sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has a limited trading market and is held by a concentrated number of investors, including the Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation Retiree Benefits Plan Trust (VEBA trust). As a result, sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any increase in the selling volume of shares of our common stock, including sales by our significant shareholders, such as the VEBA trust or others, also may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, include, among other things, low trading volume of our common stock, quarterly variations of our financial results, the nature and content of our earnings releases and our competitors’ earnings releases, developments in the steel industry, including those impacting worldwide supply of, and demand for, steel products, such as governmental regulation and market conditions affecting the demand for steel in China, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, business conditions in our market and the general state of the securities industry, governmental legislation and regulation, as well as general economic and market conditions. As a result, you could lose all or a part of your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 