Item 1A Risk Factors Page 6 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Page 6 Item 2 Properties Page 7 Item 3 Legal Proceedings Page 7 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Page 7 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 8 Item 6 Selected Financial Data Page 10 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Page 11 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Page 27 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Page 27 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Page 27 Item 9A Controls and Procedures Page 27 Item 9B Other Information Page 28 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Page 29 Item 11 Executive Compensation Page 30 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Page 36 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions Page 38 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Page 38 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Page 40 Signatures Page 42 This report contains "forward-looking statements." These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" for additional information and factors to be considered concerning forward-looking statements. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS THE COMPANY Smithway Motor Xpress Corp. ("Smithway", "Company", "we", "us", or "our") is a truckload carrier that provides nationwide transportation of diversified freight, concentrating primarily on the flatbed segment of the truckload market. We use our "Smithway Network" of computer-connected field offices, commission agencies, and company-owned terminals to offer comprehensive truckload transportation services to shippers located predominantly between the Rocky Mountains in the West and the Appalachian Mountains in the East, and in eight Canadian provinces. Smithway Motor Xpress Corp. was incorporated in Nevada in January 1995 to serve as a holding company and conduct our initial public offering, which occurred in June 1996. References to the "Company", "Smithway", "we", "us", or "our" herein refer to the consolidated operations of Smithway Motor Xpress Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Smithway Motor Xpress, Inc., an Iowa corporation, East West Motor Express, Inc., a South Dakota corporation, SMSD Acquisition Corp., a South Dakota corporation, and New Horizons Leasing, Inc., an Iowa corporation. Our headquarters are located at 2031 Quail Avenue, Fort Dodge, Iowa 50501, and our website address is www.smxc.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all other reports we file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website or through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website located at www.sec.gov. RECENT DEVELOPMENT On March 22, 2007, our company, Western Express, Inc., a Tennessee corporation ("Western"), and Western Express Acquisition Corporation, a Nevada corporation ("Acquisition Sub"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") providing for the merger of Acquisition Sub with and into our company with our company surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Western (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into and represent the right to receive $10.63 in cash. The Merger Agreement has been approved by our Board of Directors and Western's Board of Directors. The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are subject to the approval of our stockholders and other customary closing conditions and are expected to close in the summer of 2007. OPERATIONS We integrate our sales and dispatch functions throughout our computer-connected "Smithway Network." The Smithway Network consists of our headquarters in Fort Dodge, Iowa and 10 terminals, field offices, and independent agencies. The headquarters and 9 terminals and field offices are managed by Smithway employees, while our agency terminal is managed by an independent commission agent. The customer sales representatives and agents at each location have front-line responsibility for booking freight in their regions. Fleet managers at the Fort Dodge, Iowa headquarters coordinate all load movements via computer link to optimize load selection and promote proper fleet balance among regions. Sales and dispatch functions for traffic are generally performed at terminals within the sales region. CUSTOMERS AND MARKETING Our sales force includes eight sales representatives, personnel at ten terminals and field offices, and one independent commission agent. National sales representatives focus on national customers, while sales personnel at terminals, field offices, and agencies are responsible for regional customer contact. Our sales force emphasizes rapid response time to customer requests for equipment, undamaged and on-time pickup and delivery, one of the nation's largest fleets of flatbed equipment, safe and professional drivers, logistics management, dedicated fleet capability, and our strategically located Smithway Network. We believe that few other carriers operating principally in the Midwest flatbed market offer similar size and service. Consequently, we seek primarily service-sensitive freight 3 rather than competing for all freight on the basis of price. In 2006, our top 50, 25, ten, and five customers accounted for approximately 64%, 54%, 36%, and 25% of revenue, respectively. TECHNOLOGY We utilize an operating system and freight selection software to improve the efficiency of our operations. This software was designed specifically for the trucking industry to allow managers to coordinate available equipment with the transportation needs of customers, monitor truck productivity and fuel consumption, and schedule regular equipment maintenance. It also is designed to allow immediate access to current information regarding driver and equipment status and location, special load and equipment instructions, routing, and dispatching. We operate on-board communication units in all company-owned tractors and offer rental of these units as an option to our independent contractors. Drivers can immediately report breakdowns or other emergency conditions. The system enables us to advise customers of the location of freight in transit through its hourly position reports of each tractor's location. We also offer our customers electronic data interchange, which allows customers to communicate directly with us via computer link or the Internet and obtain location updates of in-transit freight, expected delivery times, and account payment instructions. DRIVERS, INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS, AND OTHER PERSONNEL We seek company and independent contractor drivers who safely manage their equipment and treat freight transportation as a business. We have historically operated a fleet comprised of substantial numbers of both company-owned and independent contractor tractors. We believe a mixed fleet offers competitive advantages because we are able to recruit from both driver pools. We intend to retain a mixed fleet in the future to ensure that recruiting efforts toward either group are not damaged by becoming categorized as predominantly either a company-owned or independent contractor fleet, although several factors may cause fluctuations in the fleet mix from time-to-time. We have implemented several policies to promote driver and independent contractor recruiting and retention. These include increases in pay rates and non-monetary methods which include updating our tractor fleet, maintaining an open-door policy with easy access to senior executives, appointing an advisory board comprised of top drivers and independent contractors to consult with management, and assigning each driver and independent contractor to a particular driver manager to ensure personal contact. In addition, we operate over relatively short-to-medium distances (611-mile average length of haul in 2006) to return drivers home as frequently as possible. We are not a party to a collective bargaining agreement and our employees are not represented by a union. At December 31, 2006, we had 789 company drivers, 247 non-driver employees, and 474 independent contractors. We believe that we have good relationships with our employees and independent contractors. SAFETY AND INSURANCE Our active safety and loss prevention program has resulted in the Department of Transportation's highest safety and fitness rating (satisfactory) and numerous safety awards. Our safety and loss prevention program includes pre-screening, initial orientation, six weeks of on-the-road training for drivers without substantial experience, and safety bonuses. We maintain insurance covering losses in excess of a $250,000 self-insured retention for casualty insurance, which includes cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, and physical damage claims. We also have a $250,000 self-insured retention for workers' compensation claims in states where a self-insured retention is allowed. Our primary casualty and workers' compensation insurance policies have a limit of $2.0 million per occurrence. We reinstated excess coverage on February 1, 2005, which covers losses above our primary policy limit of $2.0 million up to a per claim loss limit of $5.0 million. All policies are scheduled for renewal in July 2007. Claims that exceed the limits of insurance coverage, or for which coverage is not provided, may cause our financial condition and 4 results of operations to suffer a materially adverse effect. REVENUE EQUIPMENT Our equipment strategy for company-owned tractors (as opposed to independent contractors' tractors) is to operate tractors for a period that balances capital expenditure requirements, disposition values, driver acceptability, repair and maintenance expense, and fuel efficiency. In 2004, we began to replace our tractor fleet in order to shorten our tractor trade cycle to approximately 500,000 miles. We plan to routinely replace approximately 25% of our company tractors annually. Increased costs associated with the manufacturing of the new, EPA-compliant engines, changes in the market for used tractors, and difficult market conditions faced by tractor manufacturers may result in increased equipment prices and increased operating expenses. We operate conventional (engine forward) tractors with standard engine and drivetrain components, and trailers with standard brakes and tires to minimize our inventory of spare parts. All equipment is subject to our regular maintenance program, and also is inspected and maintained each time it passes through one of our maintenance facilities. The following table shows the number of units and average age of company-owned revenue equipment as of the indicated dates. The beginning and end of period numbers include only tractors and trailers that were available for dispatch. Year ended December 31, --------------------- 2004 2005 2006 ----- ----- ----- TRACTORS Beginning of Period 750 794 782 Acquired 279 252 225 Disposed (212) (233) (233) Change in availability of tractors (23) (31) 1 End of Period 794 782 775 Average age at end of period (in months) 36 29 24 TRAILERS Beginning of Period 1,968 1,771 1,721 Acquired 3 340 390 Disposed (200) (390) (373) End of Period 1,771 1,721 1,738 Average age at end of period (in months) 78 69 59 During 2007, we plan to acquire 150 new tractors and 607 new trailers to replace old tractors and trailers. COMPETITION The truckload segment of the trucking industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and no carrier or group of carriers dominates the flatbed or van market. We compete primarily with other regional, short-to-medium-haul carriers and private truck fleets used by shippers to transport their own products in proprietary equipment. Competition is based primarily upon service and price. We also compete to a limited extent with rail and rail-truck intermodal service, but attempt to limit this competition by seeking service-sensitive freight and focusing on short-to-medium lengths of haul. Although we believe the 853 company drivers and independent contractors dedicated to our flatbed operation at December 31, 2006 rank our flatbed division among the ten largest such fleets in that industry segment, there are other trucking companies, including diversified carriers with large flatbed fleets, that possess substantially greater financial resources and operate more equipment than us. FUEL AVAILABILITY AND COST We actively manage fuel costs. Company drivers purchase virtually all of our fuel through service centers with which we have volume purchasing arrangements. Most of our contracts with customers contain fuel surcharge provisions and we also attempt to recover increases in fuel prices through higher rates. However, increases in fuel prices generally are not fully offset through these measures. 5 Shortages of fuel, increases in fuel prices, or rationing of petroleum products could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and profitability. It is uncertain whether fuel prices will continue to increase or will decrease, or the extent to which we can recoup a portion of these costs through fuel surcharges. REGULATION We are a motor carrier regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation and other federal and state agencies. Our business activities in the United States are subject to broad federal, state and local laws and regulations beyond those applicable to most business activities. Our regulated business activities include, but are not limited to, service area, routes traveled, equipment specifications, commodities transported, rates and charges, accounting systems, financial reporting and insurance coverages. Our Canadian business activities are subject to similar requirements imposed by the laws and regulations of the Dominion of Canada and provincial laws and regulations. Motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the U.S. Department of Transportation and by Canadian provincial authorities. Matters such as weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to federal, state and provincial regulations. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation made significant changes to the regulations governing the hours of service for drivers of commercial motor vehicles that carry freight. Truckload carriers were required to comply with the revised regulations effective October 1, 2005, with a transitional period of compliance and enforcement from October 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005. In general, the new regulations are intended to increase safety by giving drivers more opportunity to rest and obtain restorative sleep during each work cycle by, for example, increasing the minimum off duty time during each work cycle. The maximum on-duty period after which a driver may no longer drive was shortened and can no longer be extended by time spent off duty (such as meal stops and other rest breaks) once the on-duty period has begun. Therefore, delays during a driver's on-duty time (such as those caused by loading/unloading problems) may limit drivers' available hours behind the wheel, particularly if such delays occur late in an on-duty period. This, and other operational issues that the new rules may create, could increase our operating costs. The Environmental Protection Agency adopted new emissions control regulations, which require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines manufactured on or after October 1, 2002. The initial reduction became effective October 1, 2002, with more stringent reductions scheduled to become effective on January 1, 2007 and 2010. Among other things, the regulations require diesel engines to use exhaust gas recirculation technology. Compliance with the regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors and operating expenses while reducing fuel economy and it is anticipated that the 2007 and 2010 changes will further adversely impact those areas. We are subject to federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with such laws and regulations. However, continuing costs of such compliance may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, operations or financial condition or require a material increase in currently anticipated capital expenditures. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The information set forth under the caption "Risk Factors" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 6 