risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report before you decide to purchase our securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our auditors have raised substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. Since inception we have experienced recurring losses from operations, which losses have caused an accumulated deficit of approximately $24.6 million as of December 31, 2006. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in future periods until we are successful in completing a business combination with an operating entity. There are no assurances that we will be able to consummate a transaction with an operating company or continue as a going concern, in which event investors would lose their entire investment in our company. 9 We are not current in our reporting obligations with the SEC and our status as a public company could be revoked at any time. We are not current in our filing obligations with the SEC and in March 2009 we were notified by the SEC that it appeared we were delinquent in our reporting obligations pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and could be subject, without further notice, to an administrative hearing to revoke the registration of our securities under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 2006 in August 2009 and we will need to file our annual reports for 2007 and 2008, as well as our quarterly reports for the 2009 interim periods, to become current in our reporting obligations. While we are using our best efforts to file all delinquent reports with the SEC, if we are unable to complete those filings before the SEC seeks to bring an administrative action against it is likely that we would cease being a public company. In that event the attractiveness of our vehicle to an operating company would be severely diminished and our ability to consummate a business combination would be in jeopardy. We have a significant amount of past due debt and no cash or assets. At December 31, 2006 our balance sheet includes approximately $13.972 million of debt, including past due secured and unsecured notes, accounts payable, liquidated damages and accrued expenses. While subsequent to that date all outstanding amounts due the only secured creditor, Laurus, which totaled $2.1 million at December 31, 2006 including principal and unpaid, interest. Subsequent to December 31, 2006, we settled the principal and unpaid interest due to Laurus, however, we accrued $2,165,000 in liquidating damages at December 31, 2006 which remains outstanding. We currently do not have an operating business, but also do not intend to pursue a course of complete liquidation and dissolution, and accordingly, the value of your shares may decrease. We currently do not have any operating business. We continue to incur operating expenses while we consider alternative operating plans. These plans may include business combinations with or investments in other operating companies, or entering into a completely new line of business. We have not yet identified any such opportunities, and thus, you will not be able to evaluate the impact of such a business strategy on the value of your stock. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any appropriate business opportunities. Even if we are able to identify business opportunities that our Board deems appropriate, we cannot assure you that such a strategy will provide you with a positive return on your investment, and it may in fact result in a substantial decrease in the value of your stock. These factors will substantially increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our shares. Our sole officer does not devote all of his time and attention to our business. Mr. Page, who serves as our sole officer, devotes only approximately 90% of his time to the business and affairs of our company. Because Mr. Page is primarily responsible for the identification and consummation of an acquisition of an operating company for us, we are materially dependent upon his efforts on our part. It is possible that because he does not spend his all of his time and efforts on our behalf that it may take longer to identify and close an acquisition of an operating company than if he was employed by us on a full-time basis. We may not be able to identify or fully capitalize on any appropriate business opportunities. We have not yet identified any appropriate business opportunities, and, due to a variety of factors outside of our control, we may not be able to identify or fully capitalize on any such opportunities. These factors include: • competition from other potential acquirers and partners of and investors in potential acquisitions, many of whom may have greater financial resources than we do; • in specific cases, failure to agree on the terms of a potential acquisition, such as the amount or price of our acquired interest, or incompatibility between us and management of the company we wish to acquire; and • the possibility that we may lack sufficient capital and/or expertise to develop promising opportunities. 10 Even if we are able to identify business opportunities that our Board deems appropriate, we cannot assure you that such a strategy will provide you with a positive return on your investment, and may in fact result in a substantial decrease in the value of your stock. In addition, if we enter into a combination with a business that has operating income, we cannot assure you that we will be able to utilize all or even a portion of our existing net operating loss carryover for federal or state tax purposes following such a business combination. If we are unable to make use of our existing net operating loss carryover, the tax advantages of such a combination may be limited, which could negatively impact the price of our stock and the value of your investment. These factors will substantially increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our shares. Our common stock is quoted in the over the counter market on the Pink Sheets. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets. Pink Sheets offers a quotation service to companies that are unable to list their securities on an exchange or for companies, such as ours, whose securities are not eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. The requirements for quotation on the Pink Sheets are considerably lower and less regulated than those of the OTC Bulletin Board or an exchange. Because our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, it is possible that even fewer brokers or dealers would be interested in making a market in our common stock which further adversely impacts its liquidity. You may find it extremely difficult or impossible to resell our shares. Even if an active public market is established, we cannot guarantee you that there will ever be any liquidity in our common stock. While our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, there is not an active market for our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active public market for our common stock will ever be established. Purchasers of our shares of common stock will face significant obstacles if they wish to resell the shares. Absent an active public market for our common stock, an investment in our shares should be considered illiquid. Even if an active public market is established, it is unlikely a liquid market will develop. Because we are a shell company, the investment community may show little or no interest in our securities and investors may not be readily able to liquidate their investment, if at all. Investors seeking liquidity in a security should not purchase our shares of common stock. The tradability of our common stock is limited under the penny stock regulations which may cause the holders of our common stock difficulty should they wish to sell the shares. Because the quoted price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a “penny stock,” and trading in our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements. The broker/dealer must make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. SEC regulations also require additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a “penny stock,” including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its associated risks. These requirements severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few broker or dealers are likely to undertake these compliance activities and this limited liquidity will make it more difficult for an investor to sell his shares of our common stock in the secondary market should the investor wish to liquidate the investment. In addition to the applicability of the penny stock rules, other risks associated with trading in penny stocks could also be price fluctuations and the lack of a liquid market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 11 ITEM 