risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock. If we were unable to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, and then market our drug product candidates, our business would be harmed. The process for developing new therapeutic products is inherently long, complex, and uncertain. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our development programs will eventually result in products that will receive regulatory approval and achieve market acceptance. We currently have four drug product candidates in clinical development. Each candidate is the subject of an effective IND that we filed with FDA. The protocols for any clinical trials we perform under these INDs must have institutional review board (“IRB”) approval, and the trials must comply with FDA’s good clinical practices (“GCP”) and other regulations. There is no assurance that the clinical trials we may seek to conduct under these INDs will obtain IRB approval. There is also no assurance that FDA will allow us to continue the clinical trials that we have begun. FDA may suspend a clinical trial at any time if the agency believes that the patients participating in the study are or will be exposed to unacceptable health risks. FDA may also terminate an IND and require the sponsor to end all clinical trials under that IND, if it finds deficiencies in the IND or in the conduct of a trial under the IND. Some of our clinical trials are conducted in foreign countries, and the regulatory authorities of those countries have comparable authority to suspend and terminate clinical trials. Suspension or termination of the clinical trials of our drug product candidates could substantially delay or even prevent regulatory approval of the drug product candidates. There is no guarantee that clinical studies, if performed, will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any drug product candidate we have in development. Sales of our drug product candidates will be subject to pre-market approval requirements in the United States and in other countries. These requirements vary widely from country to country. We cannot assure you that we will receive approval to market any of our drug product candidates in any country. We have yet to submit an application for marketing approval for any of the drug product candidates we currently have under development. We cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit any of these drug product candidates for regulatory review. We cannot assure you that once we submit a drug product candidate for review, FDA or any other regulatory agency will approve that product on a timely basis or at all. Approval of our drug product candidates in the United States or a foreign country may depend on our agreement to perform burdensome and expensive post-marketing studies or our agreement to a burdensome risk management plan that could interfere with physician and patient acceptance of our product. We cannot assure you that we will agree to perform such additional studies or to accept such a risk management plan. If we agree to perform post-market studies and then fail to conduct those studies with due diligence, or if those studies fail to verify the product’s clinical benefit, FDA may withdraw its approval of the product. If FDA or a foreign regulatory authority approves one of our drug product candidates, we will need to manufacture, or contract with third parties to manufacture, a sufficient volume of that product to meet market demand. This will require accurate forecasting of market demand. There is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast the market demand for any of our drug product candidates or that there will be any market demand. There is also no assurance that we will be able to successfully manufacture, or find a third 17 party to manufacture, adequate quantities of any of our drug product candidates to meet any market demand. Our most advanced drug product candidate is cintredekin besudotox (IL13-PE38QQR), which we believe has potential to be used as a treatment for malignant gliomas. In September 1997, we exclusively licensed worldwide rights to cintredekin besudotox from the NIH and FDA. Our Phase I clinical trials to date involving this drug product candidate have enrolled approximately 100 patients. On the basis of our preliminary Phase I clinical trial findings for this drug product candidate, we initiated the PRECISE trial, a pivotal Phase III multi-center, multi-national clinical trial that enrolled a total of 294 patients, of which, in accordance with the trial protocol, approximately 196 patients received cintredekin besudotox. There are no assurances that cintredekin besudotox will prove to be safe and effective or receive regulatory approval for any indication. We also have three other drug product candidates in clinical development for the treatment of various cancers: LE-SN38, LEP-ETU, and LErafAON. Each of these drug product candidates has either completed or is currently in Phase I clinical testing. There are no assurances that any of these drug product candidates will prove to be safe and effective or that any of them will receive regulatory approval for the treatment of the indications which we may pursue. Even if we receive regulatory approval for one of our drug product candidates in the United States or a foreign country, there are no assurances that the product will prove to be commercially successful or profitable. We are highly dependent on achieving success in the clinical testing, regulatory approval, and commercialization of our most advanced drug product candidate, cintredekin besudotox, which may never be approved for commercial use. If we are unable to commercialize cintredekin besudotox, our ability to generate revenues would be impaired and our business would be harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of cintredekin besudotox, and we anticipate that for the foreseeable future, our potential to achieve revenues from drug product sales will be dependent on its successful clinical testing, regulatory approval in the United States, and successful commercialization. Development, approval, and successful commercialization of new drug products is a highly uncertain process. We may suffer significant setbacks in our Phase III clinical trial of cintredekin besudotox (the PRECISE trial), even after achieving potentially promising results in earlier clinical trials. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we completed enrollment in the PRECISE trial for patients suffering from first recurrent glioblastoma multiforme tumors. Patients in the PRECISE trial received treatment either with cintredekin besudotox or with Gliadel® Wafers, a product currently approved to treat this disease. The primary endpoint of the study is to determine if there is a statistically significant overall patient survival difference between patients treated with cintredekin besudotox and patients treated with Gliadel® Wafers. The results from our clinical trial may not demonstrate a statistically significant difference. If the results from the PRECISE trial do not demonstrate a statistically significant difference, FDA could determine that additional clinical trials are necessary, which could delay or even prevent approval and commercialization. Even if we conclude that the results from our clinical trial demonstrate a statistically significant difference, FDA may not agree with us, for example because it evaluates the data using a different method. FDA could also conclude that the clinical trial results are not clinically meaningful, that there were human errors in the conduct of the clinical trial, or that for some other reason the clinical trial results are inadequate to support approval of cintredekin besudotox. Even if FDA agrees that the results from the PRECISE trial demonstrate a statistically significant difference, FDA may require statistically significant results in a second Phase III trial before it will approve cintredekin besudotox. Even if we believe that we have submitted all of the data and information necessary to satisfy FDA requirements for approval of a 18 BLA, there is a risk that FDA will require additional data and information that we are unable to provide. Finally, even if the results are statistically significant, adverse safety findings in the PRECISE trial could delay or prevent regulatory approval. Even if the results of the PRECISE trial are statistically significant, prior to commercialization of cintredekin besudotox in the United States, we will have to submit, and FDA will have to approve, a BLA for cintredekin besudotox. FDA approval is contingent on many factors, including its evaluation of our clinical trial results, its assessment of the remaining portions of our BLA, and its inspection of facilities where cintredekin besudotox is manufactured. If FDA does not approve the BLA, if FDA approval is delayed, or if FDA requires additional clinical testing or other information, our ability to achieve revenues from product sales will be impaired and our stock price would be materially and adversely affected. Even though FDA has awarded orphan drug designation to cintredekin besudotox, a competitor could obtain orphan drug designation for the same drug for the same indication and complete its clinical trials before we complete ours. FDA could approve that competitor’s product first and give it seven years of market exclusivity. In this case, we might not be allowed to market our product in the United States for seven years. This would have a material adverse effect on our business. The law would permit FDA to approve our product during the seven years if certain conditions were met, but there is no assurance we could satisfy these conditions. We might be able to market the product outside the United States, if certain conditions were met, but there is no guarantee that we would be able to satisfy those conditions. The export process can be complex, and there are no assurances that export would be permitted or that another country would accept the product. Even if FDA approves cintredekin besudotox as an orphan drug and awards it seven years of exclusivity, the law permits FDA, in certain situations, to approve a competitor’s product. This could have a material adverse effect on the commercial success of our product. Because all of our drug product candidates are in clinical development, there is a high risk that further development and testing will demonstrate that our drug product candidates are not approvable or suitable for commercialization, which could cause our business to suffer. None of our drug product candidates has received regulatory approval for commercial sale. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our drug product candidates, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that the drug product candidate is safe and effective. Conducting pre-clinical and clinical testing is a lengthy, expensive, and uncertain process and may take several years or more. Success in pre-clinical testing does not assure success in clinical trials, and positive results in early phase clinical trials do not assure a positive outcome in later trials. Clinical development of any of our drug product candidates, including, but not limited to cintredekin besudotox, may be curtailed, redirected, delayed, or eliminated at any time for any of the following reasons or for other reasons: · our inability to manufacture, or secure third party sources to manufacture, sufficient quantities of drug compounds for use in clinical trials; · our inability to attract suitable and willing investigators for our trials; · our inability to locate, recruit, and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; · negative or ambiguous results regarding the effectiveness of the drug product candidate; · undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials, or other unforeseen or undesirable safety issues that make the drug product candidate not medically or commercially viable; · our failure, or the failure of any third party with whom we contract, to comply fully with the investigational new drug regulations and other regulations applicable to clinical trials; 19 · delays, suspension, or termination of trials imposed by us or an independent institutional review board for a clinical trial site, or a clinical hold placed upon the trial by FDA; · regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in regulatory requirements; · our inability to adequately follow patients after treatment; and · delays in importing or exporting clinical trial materials. A delay or termination of any of our clinical trials would have an adverse effect on our business. If any of our clinical trials is unsuccessful, this could preclude us from obtaining regulatory approval, which would have an adverse effect on our business. If any of our clinical trials is perceived as unsuccessful by FDA or physicians, our business, financial condition, and operations would be harmed. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, and failure to comply with those regulations can lead to unanticipated delays in product development and approval and can prevent commercialization. FDA regulates the research, development, and testing of our drug product candidates. If any of our drug product candidates is approved for marketing and introduced into the market, FDA will continue to regulate the manufacturing, labeling, distribution, marketing, and advertising activities of that product. Public health authorities in foreign countries have comparable authority. Compliance with these requirements before and after approval is expensive and time consuming. Failure to comply can lead to regulatory action that would have a negative impact on our business. In order to market a new therapeutic product in the United States, we must prove that the product is safe and effective and that the product is manufactured in compliance with CGMP. Completing the pre-clinical and clinical testing necessary to prove the safety and effectiveness of a new therapeutic product, and establishing the capability to comply with CGMP, can take many years, be very costly, and still be unsuccessful. The results of pre-clinical testing and Phase I and II studies are not necessarily indicative of the results in larger patient populations, as evaluated in Phase III studies. In order to market any of our drug product candidates, once this lengthy research and development process is completed, we will need to submit a BLA or NDA to FDA. This will need to contain pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing, labeling, and other information, and it must demonstrate that the drug product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each proposed indication. FDA may refuse to accept any of our applications if it views the application as incomplete. The manufacturing facilities must also comply with CGMP, and FDA will inspect the facility before it approves the application. Even if we complete the lengthy and expensive research and development process for one of our drug product candidates and file a BLA or NDA seeking approval to market the candidate, we do not know whether FDA will approve the application on a timely basis, or at all. FDA’s review of a BLA or NDA that it accepts can take several years. FDA can delay, limit, or deny approval for many reasons, including if: · it determines that our drug product candidate is not safe or is not effective; · it interprets the data from our pre-clinical testing and clinical trials differently than we do; · it determines that our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the processes or facilities of third parties involved in the manufacture of our drug product candidates, do not comply with CGMP; · it changes its approval policies or adopts new regulations; or · Congress amends the FDCA, the Public Health Service Act, or other applicable laws. The process of obtaining approvals in foreign countries is subject to uncertainty, delay, and failure for similar reasons. 20 In addition, FDA (and foreign regulatory authorities) may approve a drug product candidate for fewer than all the indications requested or require that the drug product be labeled in a way that differs from our proposed labeling. Even if FDA (or a foreign regulatory authority) approves one of our drug product candidates, it may require that we perform burdensome post-marketing studies and it may impose other burdensome requirements, including the requirement that we institute and maintain a special risk management plan to monitor and manage potential safety issues. These requirements could reduce or eliminate the drug product’s market potential. A drug product and its manufacturer are subject to strict regulation after product approval by FDA and comparable foreign authorities. FDA regulates manufacturing, labeling, distribution, and promotional activities after product approval, as do comparable foreign regulatory agencies. We must also report certain adverse events involving our drug products to these agencies. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, product seizure, civil penalties, suspensions and withdrawals of regulatory approvals, import and export problems, product recalls, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. The restriction, suspension, or revocation of regulatory approvals or other adverse action taken on the basis of failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operations. Previously unidentified adverse events or an increased frequency of adverse events that may occur post-approval could result in FDA, or other agencies, requiring us to conduct further clinical research, which could be expensive and could lead to new and unfavorable information about the safety or the effectiveness of our product. New safety or effectiveness information after approval can result in a change in the labeling of our drug products, new or more extensive distribution restrictions, a new or expanded risk management program, product recalls, withdrawal of the drug product from the market, or withdrawal of product approval, any of which could materially affect the commercial success of the product. Any unforeseen problems with one of our drug product candidates after approval could preclude successful commercialization of that product and harm our business and stock price. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and may never be profitable. We have a limited operating history, and our operations consist primarily of the development of our drug product candidates and the sponsorship of research and clinical trials. Over the past three fiscal years, we have incurred aggregate net losses of approximately $149.1 million. We expect to incur additional losses and, as our development efforts and clinical testing activities continue, our losses may increase. We also expect to experience negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our losses and capital expenditures. Our losses have adversely impacted, and will continue to adversely impact, our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. To date, we have not sold or received approval to sell any drug product candidates, and it is possible that revenues from drug product sales will never be achieved. We have generated only limited amounts of revenue from license fees and sales of products based upon our NeoPhectinTM technology (a novel cationic cardiolipin liposome based technology), and it is possible that additional license revenue and/or revenue from sales of NeoPhectinTM products will continue to be of limited significance. We cannot at this time predict when or if we will be able to develop other sources of revenue or when or if our operations will become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize some of our drug product candidates. Budget constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop certain drug product candidates in favor of developing others, which may prevent us from commercializing all drug product candidates as quickly as possible. Because we are an emerging company with limited resources, and because research and development is an expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and 21 development budget. As a result, we may have to prioritize development activities and may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our drug product candidates in a timely manner, as they will be delayed in reaching the market, if at all. Recently, we have undertaken efforts to substantially decrease our expenses, including a restructuring of our workforce and a reduction in research and development spending not related to our lead drug product candidate, cintredekin besudotox. If we are not successful in maintaining the planned level of spending, our efforts to commercialize cintredekin besudotox may be delayed. Additionally, the reduction in spending on our other drug product candidates could delay our commercialization efforts and negatively impact our strategy to diversify our development risk across a broad portfolio of drug product candidates. Competition in the biopharmaceutical field is intense and subject to rapid technological change. Our principal competitors have substantially greater resources to develop and market products that may be superior to ours. If we obtain regulatory approval for any of our drug product candidates, the extent to which they achieve market acceptance will depend, in part, on competitive factors. Competition in our industry is intense, and it is increased by the rapid pace of technological development. Existing drug products or new drug products developed by our competitors may be more effective or have fewer side effects, or may be more effectively marketed and sold, than any that we may develop. Each of our principal competitors has substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial, and managerial resources than we do. Competitive drug compounds may render our technology and drug product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive prior to our recovery of research, development, or commercialization expenses incurred through sales of any of our drug product candidates. The FDA’s policy of granting “fast track” approval for cancer therapies may also expedite the regulatory approval of our competitors’ drug product candidates. Each of the drug product candidates we currently have under development will face competition from drug products currently on the market or under development. The following table lists our current principal competitors and their products which compete with the listed drug product candidates we currently have under development: Our drug product candidate Principal competitor Competitor’s product Cintredekin besudotox MGI PHARMA, Inc. Gliadel® Wafer LEP-ETU Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Taxol®(1) LE-SN38 Pfizer Inc. Camptosar® LErafAON Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. Antisense products(2) (1) This product is currently off-patent and generics are available. (2) There are currently no antisense products available on the market for the treatment of cancer, but Isis Pharmaceuticals, Genta Incorporated, and others are developing such products. We also compete with other drug development companies for licenses to novel technologies as well as for collaborations with large pharmaceutical and other companies. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could decline in value. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market price of our stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be so. For example, during 2004, the market price of our common stock fluctuated between $22.70 and $4.66 per share. During 2005, the market price of our common stock fluctuated between $15.47 and $7.16 per share. On May 13, 2003, our Board of Directors 22 declared a 15% common stock dividend to stockholders of record on June 3, 2003, which was issued on June 10, 2003. All share information and per share data for prior periods has been restated to reflect this stock dividend. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock: · the success or failure of our clinical trials, including, but not limited to, the PRECISE trial involving our lead compound, cintredekin besudotox, or those of our competitors; · announcements of technological innovations or new drug products by us or our competitors; · litigation, including, but not limited to, current class action lawsuits and resolution of the ongoing SEC investigation of the Company; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; · our ability to obtain financing, when needed; · economic conditions in the US and abroad; · comments by or changes in Company assessments or financial estimates by securities analysts; · adverse regulatory actions or decisions; · losses of key management; · changing governmental regulations; · our ability to secure adequate third party reimbursement for products developed by us; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · product or patent litigation; and · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. These factors and fluctuations, as well as political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 23 We are currently named as a defendant in a number of securities class action lawsuits. The volatility of our stock increases the risk that additional securities class action litigation could be instituted against us in the future. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We, along with certain of our officers, are currently named as defendants in a number of class action lawsuits which have been consolidated for trial and are currently pending in the federal district court for the Northern District of Illinois, and each of which alleges various violations of the federal securities laws in connection with certain of our public statements as they relate to our LEP drug product candidate. We may be named as a defendant in similar litigation in the future. While we are vigorously defending this litigation, this litigation has resulted, and can be expected to continue to result, in substantial costs and in a diversion of management’s attention and our resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our stock. Moreover, it may result in an adverse judgment against us or a settlement, either of which could require us to make a payment to the plaintiffs to the extent a possible payment exceeds or is not covered by our insurance. The SEC has initiated an investigation of the Company. We believe that this investigation was initiated as a consequence of our arbitration proceeding, now concluded, involving Pharmacia’s development of LEP and LED and the class action lawsuits involving our public statements regarding LEP. On March 26, 2004, we received a letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission stating that the SEC is conducting a formal investigation of the Company. The SEC stated in its letter that it had made no determination of any violation of law by the Company or any individual at this time. Previously, this matter had been the subject of an informal SEC inquiry. We continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and intend to do so in order to bring this ongoing inquiry to a conclusion as promptly as possible. We believe the investigation is an outgrowth of the arbitration claim filed by the Company against Pharmacia (now Pfizer) regarding the development of our LEP and LED drug product candidates, which was concluded in April 2004, and the ongoing class action lawsuits which have been filed against us relating to public statements regarding the development of LEP. We cannot predict with certainty the direction the investigation will take or its ultimate outcome, and therefore are unable to determine whether the results of the investigation will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We will need to raise additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2005, our then existing cash reserves, plus capital raised in our follow-on stock offering in January 2006, should be sufficient to finance our operations at current and projected levels of development and general corporate activity approximately through the fourth quarter 2007. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to generate revenues from product sales in the near term or in the future, at a rate sufficient to fund our operations. Even though we were successful in raising additional capital in January 2006, we will need additional future financing depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · our degree of success in commercializing our drug product candidates; · the rate of progress and cost of research and development and clinical trial activities relating to our drug product candidates; · a possible obligation to pay damages arising from the ongoing consolidated class action lawsuit or fines arising from the SEC investigation, to the extent these possible damages or fines exceed, or are not covered by, our insurance; 24 · the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights and investigating and defending against infringement claims asserted against us by others; · emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; · changes in or terminations of our existing licensing arrangements; · the amount of milestone payments, if any, we receive from future collaborators, if any; · the costs of acquiring or licensing new technology, products or businesses if we desire to expand our product portfolio; and · the cost of manufacturing scale-up and development of marketing operations, if we undertake those activities. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or be on terms acceptable to us. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale-back, or eliminate certain of our research and development programs, to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or products, or to grant licenses to third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. We could also be required to cease operations. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, our stockholders’ ownership interest could be diluted and such securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges superior to those of our other stockholders. The terms of any debt securities we may sell to raise additional capital may place restrictions on our operating activities. Failure to secure additional financing may cause us to delay or abandon some or all of our development programs. We depend on third parties for a variety of functions, including the research and development, manufacturing, clinical testing, and regulatory compliance of our drug product candidates. No assurance can be given that these third parties arrangements will allow us to successfully develop and manufacture and market our drug product candidates. We do not have the internal infrastructure to conduct clinical trial management or certain other aspects of clinical testing ourselves. As of December 31, 2005, we had 97 full-time employees. We therefore rely on third parties to perform a variety of functions with respect to the clinical development of our drug product candidates, including clinical trial management. If we develop additional drug product candidates with commercial potential, we will have to either hire additional personnel skilled in clinical testing or engage third parties to perform such services. We have engaged PPD to oversee our PRECISE trial for cintredekin besudotox. Our agreement with PPD obligates us to compensate PPD on a monthly basis plus make milestone payments as the trial progresses. For assistance in the management and testing for our Phase I and Phase II clinical trials we have engaged Research Solutions Incorporated and Prologue Research International, Inc. on a per study basis. To oversee data management in our clinical trials we have contracted, on a per study basis, with Advanced Clinical Services. To conduct our large animal testing, we have engaged, again on a per study basis, Southern Research Institute. While we have been satisfied with the performance of these various organizations, we do not directly control them. We depend on these organizations to apply the appropriate expertise and resources to expeditiously and competently perform the services for which they have been retained. If any of these third parties with whom we contract breaches its agreement with us or fails to comply with an applicable government regulation, we might be required to find a satisfactory alternative service provider. In addition, our drug development efforts could be delayed or impaired. We are aware of at least 25 other entities that could offer similar services to those offered by each of PPD Development, Research Solutions, and Advanced Clinical Services and three other entities offering services similar to those provided by Southern 25 Research Institute. We frequently change vendors and consider such items as price, vendor capabilities to meet our needs, and ease of transition in choosing new vendors. In order to commercialize our drug product candidates successfully, we, or third parties with whom we contract, must be able to manufacture products in commercial quantities in compliance with FDA’s CGMP requirements at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. We do not currently have CGMP manufacturing capacity for any of the drug product candidates we are developing. Currently, all of our liposome compounds are produced at the Center for Advanced Drug Development, which is affiliated with the University of Iowa Pharmacy School. The Center has indicated that it is currently able to meet our needs for research and clinical trials, but we cannot be sure that it will be able to meet our needs in a timely manner or on a cost-effective basis in the future. If the Center were unable to meet our needs in the future, we cannot be sure that suitable alternatives could be found in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we have an agreement with Diosynth RTP, Inc., pursuant to which this company produces cintredekin besudotox in the quantities required to support our Phase III clinical trial and to manufacture the initial batches of this drug product candidate that would be necessary to support a BLA to market the product. Diosynth has provided us with quantities of cintredekin besudotox that we believe will allow us to complete the clinical testing of that drug product candidate and we believe that they will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of cintredekin besudotox to support our initial commercial requirements, if cintredekin besudotox is eventually approved. While we have been satisfied with the performance of both the Center for Advanced Drug Development and Diosynth, if either were to breach its agreement with us or fail to comply with any applicable governmental requirement, such actions could delay or impair our drug development and/or BLA or NDA submission efforts and we may be required to find a satisfactory alternative supplier. Though we are currently aware of at least two alternative manufacturers who might be able to supply us with our requirements for drug product candidates, if we were unable to quickly reach an agreement with these manufacturers, this could be expected to result in delays in the development and potential approval by FDA of our drug product candidates, particularly for cintredekin besudotox. We also in-license technology from governmental and academic institutions in order to minimize our investment in basic research, and we enter into collaborative arrangements with certain of these entities with respect to research and development of our drug product candidates. At this time we have a research agreement in place with FDA. The research agreement with FDA obligates us to fund research efforts at FDA relating to cintredekin besudotox through April 2006 and we expect to renew at contract expiration. We had a research agreement with Georgetown that obligated us to fund research efforts through February 28, 2005. We did not renew the research agreement with Georgetown. No assurance can be given that we will enter into more of these relationships, that we will be able to maintain or renew the research agreement with FDA, that this relationship will provide benefits to us, or that we will be able to establish new relationships on beneficial terms, without undue delays or expenditures. If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with FDA and other government regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted, and our drug product development, future sales, and profitability would suffer. All new drugs, including our drug product candidates under development, are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by FDA and comparable foreign authorities. These regulations govern, among other things, the development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of our drug product candidates. We rely on third parties to perform a variety of functions, including research and development, clinical trial management and testing, and manufacturing of our drug product candidates. 26 We currently obtain the necessary raw materials for our drug product candidates, as well as certain services, such as testing, from third parties. We currently contract with suppliers and service providers that are required to comply with strict standards established by us. Certain suppliers and service providers are required to follow GLP, GCP, and CGMP requirements and are subject to routine unannounced periodic inspections by FDA and by certain state and foreign regulatory agencies for compliance with those requirements and other applicable regulations. There can be no assurance that FDA and other regulatory agencies will find the manufacturing process or facilities or other operations of our suppliers and other service providers to be in compliance with GLP, GCP, CGMP or other applicable requirements. While to the best of our knowledge, none of our principal suppliers or service providers has been found to be out of compliance with GLP, GCP, CGMP, or other applicable requirements with respect to the goods or services they provide to us, failure of any of our principal third party suppliers or service providers to maintain satisfactory compliance with applicable requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop, market and distribute our drug product candidates in the future and, in the most serious cases, could result in the issuance of warning letters, seizure or recall of drug products, criminal prosecution, civil penalties or closure of such manufacturing facilities until compliance is achieved. We do not have sales, marketing, or distribution experience, which means we must either enter into agreements with third parties to market or co-promote our drug product candidates or develop marketing expertise ourselves. We have no experience in sales, marketing, or distribution. To date, our focus has been on research and development, and we currently do not have internal sales, marketing, or distribution resources. If we receive the required regulatory approvals, we could elect to market and sell our drug product candidates through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion, or licensing arrangements with third parties, as we have elected to do with our non-drug NeoPhectinTM products, which are being sold through independent distributors. If we elect to market our drug product candidates directly, significant additional expenditures and management resources will be required to develop an internal marketing or sales force. We have no experience in establishing or maintaining an effective sales or marketing effort. If we decide to perform sales and marketing activities ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including, but not limited to: · the inability to attract and retain a marketing or sales force with relevant pharmaceutical experience; · the costs of establishing a marketing or sales force may not be recoverable if product revenues are lower than expected; and · there could be delays in product launch due to the time needed to develop and train an effective marketing or sales force. On the other hand, to the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties for the marketing and sale of our drug product candidates, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of these third parties, and those revenues may be lower than if we marketed our drug products directly. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into sales and distribution relationships with third parties and, even if we are successful, we will not control the amount and timing of marketing resources such third parties devote to our drug product candidates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to establish an effective marketing or sales force should we choose to do so. The inability to successfully employ qualified marketing and sales personnel or to develop other sales and marketing capabilities through third parties would be harmful to our overall business operations. 27 Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We have no experience in selling pharmaceutical or other products or in manufacturing or procuring drug products in commercial quantities in compliance with FDA rules, and we have only limited experience in negotiating, establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships and conducting later stage phases of the regulatory approval process. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources, which are limited. We depend on intellectual property rights licensed from third parties. If we fail to meet our obligations under our license agreements, or if technology licensed to us is subject to the rights of others, we could lose our rights of exclusivity of use to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on our technology, which is based in part on patents and patent applications licensed from third parties. Those third-party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue development of commercial products under the licensed rights. Our license agreement regarding cintredekin besudotox requires us to engage in clinical trials of the compound in patients with renal cell carcinoma. Previous trials demonstrated that cintredekin besudotox is toxic in those patients. However, we have instead focused on developing this compound for treating patients with glioblastoma multiforme. We have informed the governmental agency from which we licensed these patents of this change, and we received no objections to it. Because of our dependence on intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, any adverse development in our relationship with these licensors, including a dispute regarding our rights under the agreements or the grant of rights by our licensors to others, could materially and adversely affect our right to commercialize the products we are developing or preclude others from commercializing these products. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our licensed rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be significantly and negatively affected. If our licensed rights were restricted or ultimately lost, our ability to continue our business based on the affected technology platform would be severely adversely affected. We depend in large part on our licensors to have and maintain the patent rights licensed to us. Where our licensors cannot license technologies to us to the exclusion of third parties, our competitive position could be impaired. In this regard, we understand that co-rights to the technologies exclusively licensed to us by NIH relating to cintredekin besudotox are claimed by one of the inventors, who has subsequently entered into an agreement assigning such rights as he may have to a third party. We are in the process of determining the nature of his claimed rights and whether or not this assignment is valid. Although we have been granted “orphan drug” status with respect to the use of cintredekin besudotox for malignant gliomas (a class of brain tumors which includes glioblastoma multiforme), and are thus potentially eligible to receive orphan drug exclusivity upon approval, in the event it were to be determined at a future date that we do not have exclusive rights to the technology licensed to us by NIH, we may be unable to preclude third parties during or after any period of orphan drug exclusivity from commercializing a drug based on cintredekin besudotox for other indications, which could cause our business to suffer. In order to receive orphan drug exclusivity, we must be the first cintredekin besudotox product approved for malignant glioma. We are currently unaware of anyone else developing a cintredekin besudotox based drug for the treatment of malignant glioma, and believe that significant hurdles exist to bringing such a product forward to compete with our drug product candidate. If we receive orphan drug exclusivity, it would prevent FDA 28 for a period of seven years from approving another sponsor’s marketing application for the same drug for those orphan indications, except that a subsequent applicant could still be approved if it demonstrated clinical superiority to our product. Other applicants could also receive approval of compounds other than cintredekin besudotox for malignant glioma, which would compete with our product, or could receive approval of cintredekin besudotox for other uses, in which case the competing cintredekin besudotox products, if suitable, could be prescribed by physicians outside their FDA approvals for malignant glioma and harm our business. In addition, it should be noted that, even if it were determined at a future date that we do not have exclusivity with respect to the patents and patent applications licensed from NIH, we have also filed various additional patent applications related to the methods of administration and use of cintredekin besudotox which are not part of the NIH patents. While we believe that patents that may eventually be granted under these patent applications would provide us with additional exclusivity of use for cintredekin besudotox, these patent applications are still pending, may not be granted, and are subject to the risks described herein relating to patents in general. Our inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our proprietary technology and products in the United States and other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused, for example, by a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningful defense of intellectual property rights. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and impair our competitive position, with the result that our business and operating results could be harmed. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering our technologies and drug product candidates, as we deem appropriate. Currently, we either own or have obtained licenses to more than 50 United States patents and patent applications relating to our technology, compounds, and drug product candidates, many of which have foreign counterparts either as issued patents or pending patent applications. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies or drug product candidates. These companies would then be able to develop, manufacture, and sell products, which compete directly with our drug product candidates. In that case, our revenues and operating results would decline. We rely upon trade secret protection for certain of our confidential information, including certain of our trade secrets, know-how, technology advances and processes. While we have taken measures to protect our confidential information, and to date have not experienced any difficulties in maintaining the confidentiality of our information, these measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other confidential information in the future. We seek to protect our confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators, or consultants may still disclose or misuse our confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our 29 trade secrets. Disclosure or misuse of our confidential information would harm our competitive position and could cause our revenues and operating results to decline. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success also depends in part on ensuring that we do not infringe the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. While we have not been sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that the drug product candidates that we have under development do not or will not infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We know of patents issued to third parties relating to antisense and oligonucleotide technology, including patents about which such third parties have communicated with us suggesting possible infringement, but the claims of which we believe we do not infringe or are invalid. Moreover, United States patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. Further, some applications are kept secret during the entire length of their pendency by request of the applicant in special circumstances. As a result, there may be patents of which we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. Patent holders sometimes send communications to a number of companies in related fields, suggesting possible infringement, and we, like a number of biotechnology companies, have received this type of communication. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that we either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, which we may not be able to do. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products or be required to cease commercializing affected products and our operating results would be harmed. In the future, others may file patent applications covering technologies that we may wish to utilize with our proprietary technologies, or products that are similar to products developed with the use of our technologies. If these patent applications result in issued patents and we wish to use the claimed technology, we would need to obtain a license from the third party, and this would increase our costs of operations and harm our operating results. We may in the future be a party to patent litigation, which could be expensive and divert our management’s attention. The field of biotechnology has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the US Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. We may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, trade secrets or other know-how or defend against claims of infringement asserted against us, which would require investigation and determination of the enforceability, scope and validity of the respective proprietary rights. These 30 proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of efforts by our technical and management personnel. If we lose key management personnel or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be harmed. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, including, but not limited to, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Guillermo A. Herrera. The principal members of our management and scientific staff accepted employment on the basis of written offers which set forth the salary and benefits to be provided, including, but not limited to, salary continuation payments upon termination of employment. Only Mr. Herrera has an employment contract with us. We do not have key man insurance on any of our management. If we were to lose the services of Mr. Herrera, or other members of our management staff, and were unable to replace them, our product development and the achievement of our strategic objectives could be delayed. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial, scientific, technical, and managerial personnel. While we have not experienced unusual difficulties to date in recruiting and retaining personnel, there is intense competition for qualified staff and no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. The demand for our drug product candidates, if any, may be adversely affected by health care reform and potential limitations on third-party reimbursement. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the US. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceutical products to government control. We cannot predict the effect that health care reforms may have on our business, and it is possible that such reforms will hurt our business. In addition, in both the US and elsewhere, sales of prescription pharmaceutical products are dependent in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services with respect to new drug products in particular. If we succeed in bringing any of our drug product candidates to the market, we cannot be certain that our products will be considered cost effective or that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us or our collaborators to sell our products on a competitive basis. In addition, many health maintenance organizations and other third party payors use formularies, or lists of drugs for which coverage is provided under a health care benefit plan, to control the costs of prescription drugs. Each payor that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a new drug will be added to the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and sometimes the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. We cannot be assured that: · our future drug products, if any, will be added to payors’ formularies; · such future drug products will have preferred status to alternative therapies; or · the formulary decisions will be conducted in a timely manner. We may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payors, which could result in us receiving lower or discounted prices for drug products we may develop in the future. 31 Physicians, patients, payors, or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize, or recommend any of our drug products, and the failure to achieve market acceptance will harm our business. Even if approved for marketing, our drug products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance of our drug products will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our drug products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products, including non-liposomal forms of the active agents included in our drug products; and · pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third party payors such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Our investments could lose market value and consequently harm our ability to fund continuing operations. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including government and corporate obligations and money market funds. The market values of these investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Fluctuations in the market price and valuations of these securities may require us to record losses due to impairment in the value of the securities underlying our investment. This could result in future charges to our earnings. All of our investment securities are denominated in US dollars. Investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. Fixed-rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest rate risk than those with shorter maturities. While floating-rate securities generally are subject to less interest rate risk than fixed-rate securities, floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. We could also be liable for damages, penalties, or other forms of censure if we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and biological hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, even by a third party, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and such liability could exceed our current general liability insurance coverage of $1,000,000 and our financial resources. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could also be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. 32 We may have product liability exposure, and insurance against such claims may not be available to us at reasonable rates or at all. While we maintain insurance to cover the use of our drug product candidates in clinical trials, we currently do not have any product liability insurance for marketed human therapeutic products. Although we plan to obtain product liability insurance when and if any of our drug product candidates become commercially available, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that any insurance we obtain will provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Claims or losses in excess of any liability insurance coverage we obtain would have a material adverse effect on our business. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third party acquisition of us or the removal of our board of directors or management more difficult. In June 2003, we adopted a stockholder rights plan that provided for the issuance of rights to purchase shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred”) of the Company. Under the plan, we distributed one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. Each purchase right entitles the holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth (1/1000th) of a share of Series A Preferred at a price of $112.00 per share, subject to adjustment. The rights become exercisable, with certain exceptions, ten business days after any party, without prior approval of our Board of Directors, acquires, or announces an offer to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock. An exception to this policy exists in the case of our largest shareholder, Dr. John N. Kapoor, who is permitted to acquire up to 30% of our common stock without triggering the rights issuance. In the event that any party acquires 15% or more of our common stock (other than Dr. Kapoor for whom the threshold is 30%), we are acquired in a merger or other business combination, or 50% or more of our assets are sold after the time that the rights become exercisable, the rights provide that each right holder will receive, upon exercise, shares of the common stock of the surviving or acquiring company, as applicable, having a market value of twice the exercise price of the right. The stockholder rights plan may discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in control, which transactions may be beneficial to our shareholders, by causing substantial dilution to a party that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, Section 203 and other provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law as well as provisions of our charter and by-laws could make a takeover of us or the removal of the members of the board of directors or management more difficult. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority, without further stockholder approval, to issue from time to time shares of preferred stock in one or more designated series or classes. Depending upon the rights and preferences which may be granted to any class of preferred shares which we may elect to issue, issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and reduce the likelihood that our common stockholders will receive dividend payments and payments upon liquidation. The issuance of preferred stock could also decrease the market price of our common stock, or have terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our shares or that our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests. If there are substantial sales of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We have filed Form S-8 registration statements registering shares issuable pursuant to our equity compensation plans. Any sales by existing stockholders or holders of options may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMNETS None 