Item 1A. Risk Factors We are dependent on a single family of products for most of our revenue, and if we do not maintain the market for these products, we will be unable to be profitable and our business will be harmed. Substantially all of our revenue since inception has been generated from sales of, or royalties from the sales of, the AutoscopeÒ vehicle detection system. We anticipate that revenue from the sale of the Autoscope system will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As such, any decline in sales of our Autoscope system would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The application of machine vision technology to traffic management is a relatively new concept in the traffic management industry. Our financial success and prospects for growth will depend in large part on the 5 continued development of the market for advanced technology solutions for traffic management and the acceptance of the Autoscope system as a reliable, cost-effective alternative to traditional vehicle detection systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to utilize our technology profitably in other products or markets. If the Autoscope system does not continue to gain greater market acceptance and if we are unable to increase awareness of our product and expand our customer base, or if revenue from the Autoscope system declines for any reason, sales of our products will suffer, and we may be unable to sustain our business. If governmental entities elect not to use our product due to budgetary constraints, project delays or other reasons, our revenues may fluctuate severely or be substantially diminished. The Autoscope system is sold primarily to governmental entities for use in large traffic control projects using advanced traffic control technologies. Unless and until broader market acceptance of the Autoscope system is achieved, we will continue to rely substantially on revenues and royalties from sales of the Autoscope system to governmental entities. In addition to normal business risks, it often takes considerable time before governmental traffic control projects are developed to the point where a purchase of the Autoscope system is made, and a purchase of our product also may be subject to a time-consuming approval process. Additionally, governmental budgets and plans may change without warning. Other risks of selling to governmental entities include dependence on appropriations and administrative allocation of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that may reflect political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense competition for government business and termination of purchase decisions for the convenience of the governmental entity. Substantial delays in purchase decisions by governmental entities, or governmental budgetary constraints, could cause our revenues and income to drop substantially or to fluctuate significantly between fiscal periods. If our primary distributor’s sales volume decreases or if it fails to pay royalties to us in a timely manner or at all, our financial results will suffer. We have entered into an agreement with Econolite, pursuant to which Econolite is the exclusive distributor of the Autoscope system in North America, the Caribbean and Latin America. In exchange for its right to distribute our product, Econolite pays us royalties for sales of the Autoscope system. Since 2002, more than 60% of our revenue has consisted of royalties resulting from sales made by Econolite, including 77% in 2006, 78% in 2005 and 69% in 2004. Econolite’s account receivable represented 69% of our accounts receivable at December 31, 2006 and 88% of our accounts receivable at December 31, 2005. We expect that Econolite will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Any decrease in Econolite’s sales volume could significantly reduce our royalty revenue and adversely impact earnings. A failure by Econolite to make royalty payments to us in a timely manner or at all will harm our financial condition. Our dependence on third parties for manufacturing and marketing our product may prevent us from meeting customers’ needs in a timely manner. We do not have, and do not intend to develop in the near future, internal capabilities to manufacture our products. We have entered into agreements with Econolite and WTI to manufacture the Autoscope system and related products. In addition, we work with suppliers overseas to manufacture Autoscope products that need to comply with the European Union’s regulatory directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. If Econolite, WTI and our overseas suppliers are unable to manufacture our products in the future, we may be unable to identify other manufacturers able to meet product and quality demands in a timely manner or at all. Our inability to find suitable manufacturers for our products could result in delays or reductions in product shipments, which in turn may harm our business reputation and results of operations. In addition, we have granted Econolite the exclusive right to market the Autoscope system and related products in North America, the Caribbean and Latin America. Consequently, our revenues depend to a significant extent on Econolite’s marketing efforts. Econolite’s inability to effectively market the Autoscope system, or the disruption or termination of that relationship, could result in reduced revenues and market share for our products. 6 Our dependence on single-source suppliers may prevent us from meeting customers’ needs in a timely manner. All of the hardware components incorporated into the Autoscope system are standard electronics components that are available from multiple sources. If current vendors of components for the Autoscope system fail to meet quality and performance expectations, and if alternative component vendors are unavailable, shortages of parts or the need to change vendors could limit our ability to manufacture the Autoscope system, which would harm our business reputation and financial results. We may face increased competition if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may result in costly litigation. Our success depends in large measure on the protection of our proprietary technology rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. We cannot assure you that the scope of any current or future patents relating to our products will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us. We also cannot assure you that others have not developed or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design products similar to ours. The reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it. This could adversely affect our business and financial results. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may be the subject of lawsuits by others who claim we violate their intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. We have not applied for patent protection in all countries in which we market and sell the Autoscope system. Consequently, our proprietary rights in the technology underlying the Autoscope system in these countries will be protected only to the extent that trade secret, copyright or other non-patent protection is available and to the extent we are able to enforce our rights. The laws of other countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Expiration of the University of Minnesota patent for certain aspects of our Autoscope system may result in additional competition. The patent rights for certain aspects of the underlying technology for the Autoscope system previously owned by the University of Minnesota expired as of July 2006. Other businesses may choose to use the University patent technology to develop a product which competes with the Autoscope system, and this competition could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Increased competition may make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers, and if we are unsuccessful in developing new applications and product enhancements, our products may become noncompetitive or obsolete. Competition in the area of advanced traffic management and surveillance is growing. Some of the companies that may compete with us in the business of developing and implementing traffic control systems have substantially more financial, technological, marketing, personnel and research and development resources than we have. Therefore, they may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. If we are unable to compete successfully with these companies, the market share for our products will decrease, and competitive pressures may seriously harm our business. Additionally, the market for vehicle detection is continuously seeking more advanced technological solutions to traffic management and control problems. Technologies such as embedded loop detectors, pressure plates, pneumatic tubes, radars, lasers, magnetometers, acoustics, and microwaves that have been used as traffic sensing devices in the past will be enhanced for use in the traffic management industry, and new technologies may be developed. We are aware of several companies that are developing traffic management devices using machine 7 vision technology or other advanced technology. We expect that we increasingly will face competitive product developments, applications and enhancements. New technologies or applications in traffic control systems may provide our customers with alternatives to the Autoscope system and could render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable to increase the number of our applications and develop and commercialize product enhancements and applications in a timely manner that respond to changing technology and satisfy the needs of our customers, our business and financial results will suffer. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products on a timely or cost-effective basis or that these products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. We may not be able to quickly respond to emerging low-cost local competitors, and our inability to do so could affect revenue and profitability. Local competing low-cost developers of machine vision products for traffic in our international markets are likely to emerge and grow stronger, especially since it appears that local officials that purchase traffic management products favor products that are developed and manufactured locally. This bias could erode revenue in Europe and Asia and affect profitability. Lack of market acceptance of new products or new features in one or more of our market segments could adversely affect revenues and profitability. Even though we diligently seek out new product requirements by talking to our distributors and customers, there is no guarantee that our new products, including our new Autoscope Terra product line, or product features or functions we introduce will gain market acceptance. The lack of market acceptance in one or more of our markets could hurt our reputation and decrease our revenues and earnings. Our inability to manage growth effectively could seriously harm our business. Growth and expansion of our business could significantly strain our capital resources as well as the time and abilities of our management personnel. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require continued improvement of our operational, financial and management systems, and successful training, motivation and management of our employees. If we are unable to manage growth successfully, our business and operating results will suffer. Our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 9% of our common stock, and they have influence over shareholder voting matters, which may deprive other shareholders of the ability to influence corporate actions. As of March 8, 2007, our directors and officers owned beneficially approximately 9% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions, regardless of how other shareholders may vote. This concentration of voting control among our officers and directors may result in the deferral, prevention or delay in a change in management or change in control of the Company and may constrain the voting or other rights of other holders of our common stock. Our business operations will be severely disrupted if we lose key personnel or if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our technology is dependent upon the knowledge, experience, and skills of key scientific and technical personnel. Additionally, our ability to continue technological developments and to market our products, and thereby develop a competitive edge in the marketplace, depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the individuals we need. The loss of key personnel, or our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel, will harm our business. 8 Our business tends to be seasonal, with results in revenue and operating results varying from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past due to the seasonality of our business. The second and third quarters are the strongest, and the first and fourth quarters are the weakest, generally due to weather conditions in North America and Europe that make roadway construction more difficult. We expect such seasonality to continue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, our international revenues have a significant large project component, resulting in a varying revenue stream. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. No assurance can be given that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operating costs tend to be fixed, while our revenue tends to be seasonal, thereby resulting in operating results that fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our expense levels are based in part on our product development efforts and our expectations regarding future revenues and, in the short-term, are generally fixed. Therefore, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. As a result, if anticipated revenues in any quarter do not occur or are delayed, our operating results for the quarter would be disproportionately affected. Operating results also may fluctuate due to factors such as the demand for our products, product life cycle, the development, introduction and acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors, changes in the mix of distribution channels through which our products are offered, changes in the level of operating expenses, customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products, competitive conditions in the industry and economic conditions generally. Our stock price is volatile. Our common stock is thinly traded, with 3,452,283 shares of our 3,777,004 outstanding shares held by non-affiliates as of March 8, 2007. Based on the trading history of our common stock and the nature of the market for publicly traded securities of companies in evolving high-tech industries, we believe there are several factors that have caused and are likely to continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. The fluctuations may occur on a day-to-day basis or over a longer period of time. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our stock price include: announcements of large orders obtained by us or our competitors, substantial cutbacks in government funding of highway projects or of the potential availability of alternative technologies for use in traffic control and safety, quarterly fluctuation in our financial results or the financial results of our competitors and consolidation among our competitors. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are in the process of documenting our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 will be effective for us for the year ending December 31, 2007. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or The Nasdaq Stock Market. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results, investors’ confidence in our Company and our ability to access capital markets and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. 9 We sell our products internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities, which could harm our international sales and profitability. During the years ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, 23%, 22% and 31% of our total revenues were attributable to international sales. We sell outside of the United States through our agreement with Econolite and through our subsidiaries, Flow Traffic, ISS/Europe and ISS/Poland. By doing business in international markets, we are exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. Because most of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become more costly to the international consumer and therefore less competitive in international markets, which could adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, although currently only a small percentage of our sales are denominated in non-U.S. currency, this percentage may increase in the future, in which case fluctuations in exchange rates could affect demand for our products. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • required compliance with existing and new foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in currency exchange rates; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Our inability to comply with European regulatory restrictions over hazardous substances and electronic waste could restrict product sales in those markets and reduce profitability in the future. The European Union has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. This directive must now be enacted and implemented by individual European Union governments (such legislation together with the directive, the WEEE Legislation), and certain producers are to be financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation. This may impose on us requirements, which, if we are unable to meet, could adversely affect our ability to market our products in European Union countries, and sales revenues and profitability would suffer as a consequence. In addition, the European Parliament has enacted a directive for the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). This legislation governs restriction of the use of such substances as mercury, lead, cadmium, and hexavalent cadmium. We expect that we will continue to have our product manufactured in compliance with the RoHS directive. However, if we are unable to do so we would be unable to market our products in European Union countries, and sales revenues and profitability would suffer as a consequence. New Asian requirements for electronic products could increase our cost of production and delay delivery of our product to our customers, thereby adversely impacting revenue and profitability. Various Asian governments could adopt their own versions of environment-friendly electronic regulations, similar to the European directives, RoHS and WEEE. This could require new and unanticipated manufacturing changes, product testing and certification requirements, thereby increasing cost, delaying sales, and lowering revenue and profitability. 10 Our ability to comply with the conditions beyond our control could seriously harm our business. Terrorists’ attacks against and natural disaster affecting Econolite, WTI or our overseas suppliers would adversely affect manufacture of our Autoscope products and delay the delivery of sales orders. War and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, bird flu or similar epidemics could affect our ability to travel and sell products internationally and to deliver product in a timely manner. Economic recession or depression could also affect government entities and their ability to expend funds for transportation improvements. These and other factors beyond our control could seriously reduce our revenues and earnings. Changes in accounting principles, including changes in employee stock option accounting rules, may adversely affect our reported operating results and our efforts and success in recruiting and retaining employees. Technology companies, including our Company, have a history of using stock programs to hire, incentivize and retain employees and directors in a competitive marketplace. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which was effective for us on January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies, including our Company, to record equity-based compensation expense for stock options and any employee stock purchase plan rights granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. We began to record these expenses on January 1, 2006. We apply the modified prospective method and have not restated prior year results. The actual amount of expense that we recognize will depend on the value of our common stock at the time of any grants of options and other stock awards to employees. The change in accounting rules may lead to an increased loss, if we recognize a net loss, or a decrease in reported earnings, if we have earnings. This could also adversely affect our ability to use stock plans to attract and reward employees and directors and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the marketplace. Our financial results could be adversely affected by other changes in accounting principles by FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, or various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles which have not yet been announced or adopted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 