Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In general, because our revenues depend upon earnings of our affiliated practices, any risks that harm the economic performance of the affiliated practices will, in turn, harm us. Risks Relating to Our Industry Continued efforts by commercial payers to reduce reimbursement levels, change reimbursement methodologies or control the way in which services are provided could adversely affect us. Commercial payers continue to seek to negotiate lower levels of reimbursement for cancer care services, with a particular focus on reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. A disproportionate majority of affiliated practices’ profitability is attributable to reimbursement from commercial payers. There is a risk that commercial payers will seek reductions in pharmaceutical reimbursement similar to those included in the recent CMS decisions and federal legislation discussed below. Any reductions in reimbursement levels could harm us and our affiliated physicians. In addition, several payers are trying to implement Mandatory Vendor Imposition (“MVI”) programs under which cancer patients or their oncologists would be required to obtain pharmaceuticals from a third-party. That third-party, rather than the oncologist, would then be reimbursed. Private payers have the ability to implement such programs through benefit designs that offer patients significant incentives to receive drugs in this fashion as well as through negotiations with practices. As described below, the United States 16 Index to Financial Statements Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) was required to implement a program under which oncologists may elect to receive drugs from a Medicare contractor, rather than purchase drugs and seek reimbursement. If such a program is successfully implemented for Medicare, private payers may follow. Commercial payers are also attempting to reduce reimbursement for other services, such as diagnostic imaging tests, by requiring that such tests be performed by specific providers within a given market or otherwise limiting the circumstances under which they will provide reimbursement for those services. In the event that payers succeed with these initiatives, our practices’ and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in Medicare reimbursement may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Government organizations, such as Medicare and Medicaid (“Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services” or “CMS”), are the largest payers for our collective group of affiliated practices. As such, changes in Medicare reimbursement practices have been initiated over the past several years, and which are continuing into 2009, may adversely affect our results of operations. Several changes which have and may continue to adversely affect the company include: • Change in Medicare reimbursement methodology based on average wholesale price (“AWP”) to average sales price (“ASP”) for oncology pharmaceuticals administered in physicians’ offices effective January 1, 2005 and its impact on differential pricing offered on pharmaceuticals; • Elimination of payments for data submission under the Medicare Demonstration Project under which physicians were reimbursed during 2005 and 2006 for providing certain data relating to quality of care for cancer patients; • Implementation of the Competitive Acquisition Program (“CAP”) which began August 1, 2006 should any affiliated practices elect to participate in this program; • CMS changes to the Practice Expense (“PE”) Methodology for non-drug services reimbursement which is being phased in from 2007 to 2010; • Capping of Medicare imaging reimbursement at the lower or Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“HOPPS”) rates or Physician Fee Schedule (“PFS”) National Payment Amounts under the Deficit Reduction Act (“DRA”) • A National Coverage Determination (“NCD”) issued by the CMS on July 30, 2007 eliminating coverage of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (“ESAs”) for patients with certain types of cancer or receiving certain types of drug therapy, and limiting coverage of ESAs in certain other circumstances, and subsequent label change by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) including similar restrictions, which are discussed in greater detail below. The Obama administration has identified health care as a policy priority and has released an outline of its health care policy initiatives as they relate to the 2010 federal budget. The outline identifies guiding principles for health care reform and spending, which include increasing access to and affordability of healthcare, primarily by ensuring access to health insurance, increasing effectiveness of care, through effective use of technology and an emphasis on evidence-based medicine, maintaining patient choice, emphasizing preventive care and enhancing the fiscal sustainability of the U.S. health care system. Specific initiatives described in the outline include reducing drug costs for federal programs by increasing availability of generics and increasing the Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers to states, increasing incentives to reduce unnecessary variability in treatment and to practice evidence-based medicine, incentivizing the use of electronic medical records and other technology, and reducing unnecessary or wasteful spending. While many of the stated goals of the initiatives are consistent with our own mission to increase access to care that is effective, efficient and based upon the latest available scientific evidence, additional regulation and continued fiscal pressure may adversely affect our business. The reductions in Medicare reimbursement may also cause some oncologists to cease providing care in the physician office setting either by retiring from the practice of medicine or by moving to a hospital setting or they may cease charging for drugs administered in the office by choosing to obtain drugs through CAP. Any such reductions in our affiliated practices would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any reduction in the overall size of the outpatient oncology market could adversely affect our prospects for growth and business development. Recently, CMS has implemented a pilot program in which third party contractors are retained to seek recovery of allegedly erroneous payments by governmental programs and are paid based upon successful recoveries. We believe that the increasing national budget deficit, aging population and the prescription drug benefit will mean that pressure to reduce healthcare costs, and drug costs in particular, will continue to intensify. For a more complete description of the Medicare reimbursement changes and their impact to the company, see Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Reimbursement Matters.” 17 Index to Financial Statements Restrictions on reimbursement by government programs for erythropoiesis-stimulating agents have resulted in a material and continuing reduction in revenues and profits of our affiliated practices and us. Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (‘‘ESAs’’) are widely-used drugs for the treatment of anemia, which is a condition that occurs when the level of healthy red blood cells in the body becomes too low, thus inhibiting the blood’s ability to carry oxygen. Many cancer patients suffer from anemia either as a result of their disease or as a result of the treatments they receive to treat their cancer. ESAs have historically been used by oncologists to treat anemia caused by chemotherapy, as well as anemia in cancer patients who are not currently receiving chemotherapy. ESAs are administered to increase levels of healthy red blood cells and are an alternative to blood transfusions. In March, 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) issued a public health advisory outlining new safety information, including revised product labeling, about ESAs which it later revised on November 8, 2007. In particular, the FDA highlighted studies that concluded that an increased risk of death may occur in cancer patients who are not receiving chemotherapy and who are treated with ESAs. The FDA advisory and subsequent intermediary actions led the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to open a national coverage analysis (“NCA”), on March 14, 2007, on the use of ESAs for conditions other than advanced kidney disease, which was the first step toward issuing a proposed national coverage decision. The national coverage decision (“NCD”) was released on July 30, 2007, and was effective as of that date. The NCD went significantly beyond limiting coverage for ESAs in patients who are not currently receiving chemotherapy that was referenced in the initial FDA advisory referred to above. The NCD included determinations that eliminate coverage for anemia not related to cancer treatment. Coverage was also eliminated for patients with certain other risk factors. In circumstances where ESA treatment is reimbursed, the NCD (i) requires that in order to commence ESA treatment, patients be significantly more anemic than is common practice prior to the NCD; (ii) imposes limitations on the duration of ESA therapy and the circumstances in which it should be continued and (iii) limits dosing and dose increases in nonresponsive patients. Subsequent to the issuance of the NCD, the Oncology Drug Advisory Committee of the FDA (“ODAC”) met on March 13, 2008, to further consider the use of ESAs in oncology. Based upon the ODAC findings on July 30, 2008, FDA published a final new label for the ESA drugs Aranesp and Procrit. Unlike the NCD from CMS, which governs reimbursement, rather than prescribing, for Medicare beneficiaries only, the label indication directs appropriate physician prescribing and applies to all patients and payers. The label was effective as of August 14, 2008, and primarily changed the labeled use of ESAs in the following areas: • ESAs are “not indicated” for patients receiving chemotherapy when the anticipated outcome is cure. • ESA therapy should not be initiated when hemoglobin levels are ³ 10 grams per deciliter (“g/dL”) • References in the labeling to an upper limit of 12 g/dL have been removed. The FDA did not adopt an ODAC recommendation to limit ESA in head/neck and breast cancers, or any other tumor type which significantly reduced the impact of a possible decrease in utilization. FDA also mandated that a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (“REMS”) with respect to ESAs be adopted. A REMS proposal by manufacturers was filed with the FDA in late August, 2008. The REMS will focus on future ESA prescribing and is projected to require additional patient consent/education requirements, medical guides and physician registration procedures. The length of time required for the FDA to approve the REMS and for the manufacturers to implement the new program is uncertain, however we believe it may be released during the first quarter of 2009. Once implemented, the REMS will outline additional, if any, procedural steps that will be required for qualified physicians to order and prescribe ESAs for their patients. Operating income attributable to ESAs administered by our network of affiliated physicians was $32.1 million in 2008 compared to $58.0 million in 2007. The operating income reflects results from our Medical Oncology Services segment which relate primarily to the administration of ESAs by practices receiving comprehensive management services and from our Pharmaceutical Services segment which includes purchases by physicians affiliated under the OPS model, as well as distribution and group purchasing fees received from manufacturers. As the NCD was effective July 30, 2007, the impact of reduced ESA utilization was not fully reflected in the results for the last half of 2007. In addition, there was a net increase in ESA pricing, the impacts of which are included in the 2008 financial results. 18 Index to Financial Statements It is not possible to estimate the impact of the REMS on the financial results of the Company as it relates to prescribing patterns, until the REMS is in effect (expected to be sometime in 2009). We believe a possible impact of the REMS could be further reductions in ESA utilization. A significant decline in ESA usage has had a significant adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations, and, particularly, its Medical Oncology Services and Pharmaceutical Services segments, and we cannot assure you that a further decline will not occur. Decreased financial performance of affiliated practices as a result of declining ESA usage could also have an effect on their relationship with the Company and lead to increased pressure to amend the terms of its management services agreements. In addition, reduced utilization of ESAs may adversely impact the Company’s ability to continue to receive favorable pricing from ESA manufacturers. Decreased financial performance may also adversely impact the Company’s ability to obtain acceptable credit terms from pharmaceutical manufacturers, including manufacturers of products other than ESAs. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies and their pricing and marketing practices could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals and adversely affect us. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies by government payers could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, which could harm us. Because Medicare reimbursement is no longer based on AWP, governmental scrutiny of AWP, which has been a focus of several investigations by government agencies may be expected to decline. However, many state Medicaid programs continue to reimburse for drugs on an AWP-based model. Moreover, existing and prior lawsuits and investigations regarding AWP have resulted and could continue to result in significant settlements that include corporate integrity agreements affecting pharmaceutical manufacturer behavior. Corporate integrity agreements subject healthcare providers, including pharmaceutical manufacturers, to burdensome and costly monitoring and reporting requirements to the Office of Inspector General of the HHS. Additionally, many of the concerns of government agencies will continue to apply under any reimbursement model. Because our network is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals, the other services we provide to, and relationships we have with pharmaceutical manufacturers, could be subject to scrutiny to the extent they are not viewed as bona fide arms length relationships or are inappropriately linked to pharmaceutical purchasing. Furthermore, possibly in response to such scrutiny as well as significant adverse coverage by the media, some pharmaceutical manufacturers could alter pricing or marketing strategies that increase the cost of pharmaceuticals to oncologists, which in turn could adversely affect us. Finally, because our network of affiliated practices participates in a group purchasing organization that is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals paid for by government programs, we or our network of affiliated practices have become involved in these investigations or lawsuits, and are the target of such pharmaceutical-related scrutiny. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. ASP-based reimbursement could make it more difficult for us to obtain favorable pricing from pharmaceutical companies. Historically, one of our key business strengths has been our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that we believe is better than prices widely available in the marketplace. Starting January 1, 2005, Medicare began reimbursing for oncology pharmaceuticals based on 106% of the average price at which pharmaceutical companies sell those drugs to oncologists and other users, so that any discount to any purchaser would have the effect of reducing reimbursement for drugs administered in all physician offices. We believe that this change has made pharmaceutical companies more reluctant to offer market-differentiated pricing to us or reduced the degree of such differentiation. Any decrease in our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that is more favorable than the market as a whole could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, particularly under our OPS model, and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may directly or indirectly, reduce our revenues and harm our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Several areas of regulatory compliance that may affect our ability to conduct business include: • federal and state anti-kickback laws; 19 Index to Financial Statements • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989 (the “Stark Law”); • federal and state false claims laws; • state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; • state laws regarding prohibitions on fee splitting; • federal and state laws regarding pharmacy regulations; • federal and state laws regarding pharmaceutical distribution; and • federal and state laws and regulations applicable to the privacy and security of health information and other personal information. These federal and state laws and regulations are extremely complex. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. It also is possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. In addition, federal and state agencies responsible for enforcement and interpretation of these laws, as well as courts, continue to issue new interpretations and change prior interpretations of these laws, including some changes that may have an adverse impact on our operations or require us to alter certain of our business arrangements. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement or perception that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our affiliated practices, hospitals and other healthcare providers with which we, or our affiliated practices, have entered into various arrangements are also heavily regulated. To the extent that our arrangements with these parties or their independent activities fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. For a more complete description of these regulations, see “Government Regulation.” We face the risk of governmental investigation and qui tam litigation relating to regulations governing billing for medical services. The federal government is aggressive in examining billing practices and seeking repayments and penalties allegedly resulting from improper billing and reimbursement practices. In addition, federal and some state laws authorize private whistleblowers to bring false claim, or qui tam suits, on behalf of the government and reward the whistleblower with a portion of any final recovery. We have previously been named in qui tam suits. In each of the qui tam suits naming us of which we are aware, the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has not intervened and such suits have been dismissed. However, because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such suits of which we are not aware. For the past several years, the number of qui tam suits filed against healthcare companies and the aggregate amount of recoveries under such suits have increased significantly. This trend increases the risk that we may become subject to additional qui tam lawsuits. Although we believe that our operations comply with applicable laws and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against allegations of wrongdoing, the costs of addressing such suits, as well as the amount of any recovery in the event of a finding of wrongdoing on our part, could be significant. The existence of qui tam litigation involving us may also strain our relationships with our affiliated physicians, particularly those physicians or practices named in such suits, or with our pharmaceutical suppliers. In previous qui tam suits of which we have been made aware, the DOJ has declined to intervene in such suits and the suits have been dismissed. Qui tam suits are brought by private individuals, and there is no minimum evidentiary or legal threshold for bringing such a suit. The DOJ is legally required to investigate the allegations in these suits. The subject matter of many such claims may relate both to our alleged actions and alleged actions of an affiliated practice. Because the affiliated practices are separate legal entities not controlled by us, such claims necessarily involve a more complicated, higher cost defense, and may adversely impact the relationship between the practices and us. If the individuals who file complaints 20 Index to Financial Statements and/or the United States were to prevail in these claims against us, and the magnitude of the alleged wrongdoing were determined to be significant, the resulting judgment could have a material adverse financial and operational effect on us, including potential limitations in future participation in governmental reimbursement programs. In addition, addressing complaints and government investigations requires us to devote significant financial and other resources to the process, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the claims. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We have existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, some of whom have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and managerial resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their services. These competitors may also undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees. We also expect our competitors to develop additional strategic relationships with providers, pharmaceutical companies and payers, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced services, acquisitions, industry consolidation and the development of additional strategic relationships by our competitors could cause price competition, a decline in revenue or a loss of market acceptance of our services, or make our services less attractive. Additionally, in developing cancer centers, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions unavailable to us. Such organizations may be willing to provide services at rates lower than we would require to operate profitably. With respect to research activities, the competitive landscape is fragmented, with competitors ranging from small limited-service providers to large full-service contract research organizations with global operations. Some of these large contract research organizations have access to more financial resources than we do. Industry forces are affecting us and our competitors. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, limits in Medicare coverage and reimbursement levels, consolidation of healthcare service companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. The changes in our industry have caused greater competition among industry participants. Our inability to predict accurately, or react competitively to, changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Most of our revenues come from pharmaceuticals, and an adverse impact on the way in which pharmaceuticals are reimbursed or purchased by us would have an adverse impact on our business. During 2008, approximately 71% of the patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices under comprehensive service agreements was attributable to pharmaceuticals. Under the comprehensive services model, our medical oncology revenues are dependent on the earnings of our affiliated practices related to pharmaceuticals. Under the OPS model, our revenues are dependent on use of pharmaceuticals by affiliated practices. Because revenues attributable to pharmaceuticals and our ability to procure pharmaceuticals at competitive prices are such a significant part of the affiliated practices’ earnings and, consequently, our revenues, factors that adversely affect those revenues, such as changes in reimbursement or usage, or the cost structure underlying those revenues are likely to adversely affect our business. In addition, there is a risk that a change in treatment patterns or reduction in use of a particular drug could result from new scientific findings or regulatory or reimbursement actions, as has occurred with ESAs. Any such change that impacts a significant amount of pharmaceutical utilization would adversely affect our results of operations. 21 Index to Financial Statements We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of pharmaceuticals manufactured and sold by a very limited number of suppliers and any termination or modification of relations with those suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of a limited number of pharmaceutical products manufactured and sold by a very limited number of, or in several cases, a single manufacturer. During 2008, approximately 43% of patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices resulted from pharmaceuticals sold exclusively by five manufacturers. Included among these are ESAs, which accounted for 5.3% of our 2008 revenue and a larger proportion of our EBITDA and net income. In addition, a limited number of manufacturers are responsible for a disproportionately large amount of market-differentiated pricing we offer to practices. Our agreements with these manufacturers are typically for one to three years and are cancelable by either party without cause with 30 days prior notice. Further, several of the agreements provide favorable pricing that can be adjusted periodically based on specified volume levels, growth levels, or a specified level of use of a specific drug as a percentage of the overall use of drugs within a given therapeutic class. In some cases, compliance with the contract is measured on a quarterly basis and pricing concessions are given in the form of rebates payable at the end of the measurement period. Unanticipated changes in usage patterns, including changes in reimbursement policies such as those which may affect ESAs or the introduction of standardized treatment regimens or clinical pathways that disfavor a given drug, could result in lower-than-anticipated utilization of a given pharmaceutical product, and cause us to fail to attain the performance levels required to earn rebates. A departure of a significant number of physicians from our network could also cause us to fail to reach contract targets. Failure to attain performance levels could result in our not earning rebates, including cost-reductions that may already have been reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, certain manufacturers pay rebates under multi-product agreements. Under these types of agreements, our pricing on several products could be adversely impacted based upon our failure to meet predetermined targets with respect to any single product. Any termination or adverse adjustment to these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to negotiate the purchase of pharmaceuticals on behalf of our network of affiliated physicians, or to expand the scope of pharmaceuticals purchased, from a particular supplier at prices below those generally offered to all oncologists is largely dependent upon such supplier’s assessment of the value of our network. Many pharmaceuticals used by our affiliated physicians are single-sourced drugs and available from only one manufacturer where the lack of competitive products makes differentiated pricing difficult to achieve. To the extent that our pharmaceutical services structure or other factors cause pharmaceutical suppliers to perceive our network as less valuable, our relationships and any pricing advantages with such suppliers could be harmed. Our inability to negotiate prices of pharmaceuticals with any of our significant suppliers at prices below those generally available to all oncologists could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our centralized business operations, particularly our distribution operation, may be adversely affected by business interruptions resulting from events that are beyond our control. Our centralized business operations, particularly our distribution operation, may be adversely affected by business interruptions resulting from events that are beyond our control. We have only one pharmaceutical distribution facility, which is located in Fort Worth, Texas. In addition, certain of our other business functions are centralized at our headquarters in Houston, Texas. A significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities, whether as a result of natural disaster or other unexpected damage from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-in, terrorist attacks, acts of war and other events, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business and adversely impact our and our affiliated practices’ operations. If we seek to replicate our centralized operations at other locations, we will face a number of technical as well as financial challenges, which we may not be able to address successfully. In particular, with respect to distribution, although we and our affiliated practices would be able to obtain pharmaceuticals from other sources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a price that is comparable or in as efficient a manner as through our own distribution operation. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. 22 Index to Financial Statements If our affiliated practices terminate their agreements with us, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices under certain circumstances are allowed, and may attempt, to terminate their agreements with us. If any of our larger practices were to succeed in such a termination, our business could be seriously harmed. From time to time, we have disputes with physicians and practices that could result in harmful changes to our relationship with them or a termination of a service agreement if adversely determined. We are also aware that some practices that are not part of our network but which are affiliated with other companies, have attempted to end or restructure their affiliations with such companies, although they may not have a contractual right to do so, by arguing that their affiliations violate some aspect of healthcare law and have been successful in doing so. Specifically, we are involved in litigation with a practice in Oklahoma that was affiliated with us under the net revenue model until April, 2006. While we were still affiliated with the practice, we initiated arbitration proceedings pursuant to a provision in the service agreement providing for contract reformation in certain events. The practice countered with a lawsuit that alleges, among other things, that we have breached the service agreement and that our service agreement is unenforceable as a matter of public policy due to alleged violations of healthcare laws. The practice sought unspecified damages and a termination of the contract. We believe that our service agreement is lawful and enforceable and that we are operating in accordance with applicable law. As a result of alleged breaches of the service agreement by the practice, we terminated the service agreement in April, 2006. In March 2007, the Oklahoma Supreme Court overturned a lower court’s ruling that would have compelled arbitration in this matter and remanded the case back to the lower court to hold hearings to determine whether and to what extent the arbitration provisions of the service agreement will be applicable to the dispute. We expect these hearings to occur in late 2009 or 2010. Because of the need for further proceedings, we believe that the Oklahoma Supreme Court ruling will extend the amount of time it will take to resolve this dispute and increase the risk of the litigation to us. In any event, as with any complex litigation, we anticipate that this dispute may take several years to resolve. During the first quarter of 2006, the practice represented 4.6% of our consolidated revenue. In October, 2006, we sold, for cash, the property, plant and equipment to the practice for an amount that approximated its net book value at the time of sale. As a result of the ongoing litigation, we have been unable to collect on a timely basis a receivable owed to us relating to accounts receivable purchased by us under the service agreement and amounts for reimbursement of expenses paid by us on the practice’s behalf. At December 31, 2008, the total receivable owed to us of $22.4 million is reflected on our balance sheet as other assets. Currently, a deposit of approximately $11.4 million is held in an escrowed bank account into which the practice has been making, and is required to continue to make, monthly deposits. These amounts will be released upon resolution of the litigation. In addition, approximately $7.6 million is being held in a bank account that has been frozen pending the outcome of related litigation regarding that account. In addition, we have filed a security lien on the receivables of the practice. We believe that the amounts held in the bank accounts combined with the receivables of the practice in which we have filed a security lien represent adequate collateral to recover the $22.4 million receivable recorded as other noncurrent assets at December 31, 2008. Accordingly, we expect to realize the amount that we believe to be owed by the practice. However, realization is subject to a successful conclusion to the litigation with the practice, and we cannot assure you as to when the litigation will be finally concluded or as to what the ultimate outcome of the litigation will be. We expect to continue to incur expenses in connection with our litigation with the practice. In addition to loss (if any) of revenue from a particular practice, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If some of our affiliated physicians or affiliated practices terminate their affiliation with us, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If a significant number of physicians leave our affiliated practices, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices usually enter into employment or non-competition agreements with their physicians that provide some assurance to both the practice and to us with respect to continuing affiliation. We and our affiliated practices seek to maintain and renew such contracts once they expire. We cannot predict whether a court will enforce the non-competition covenants in these agreements. If practices are unable to enforce these non-competition provisions or otherwise enforce these employment agreements, physicians may leave our network and compete with our affiliated practices. In addition, physicians leave our network from time to time as a result of retirement, disability or death. In addition to loss of revenue from departing physicians, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our 23 Index to Financial Statements ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If a significant number of physicians terminated relationships with our affiliated practices, our business could be seriously harmed. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. Our affiliated practices may encounter difficulties attracting additional physicians and expanding their operations or may choose not to do so. The failure of practices to expand their patient base and increase revenues could harm us. Our affiliated practices may be unsuccessful in obtaining favorable contracts with third-party payers, which could result in lower operating margins. We facilitate negotiation of commercial payer contracts and advise our affiliated physicians accordingly under our comprehensive services model. Commercial payers, such as managed care organizations, often request fee structures or alternative reimbursement methodologies that could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated physicians and therefore, on our operating results. Reductions in reimbursement rates for services offered by our affiliated physicians and other commercial payer cost containment measures could affect our liquidity and results of operations with respect to our comprehensive service agreements. We may encounter difficulties in managing our network of affiliated practices. We do not control the practice of medicine by the physicians or their compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to the practices. At the same time, an affiliated practice may have difficulty in effectively governing the practices of its individual physicians. In addition, we have only limited control over the business decisions of the practices even under the comprehensive services model. As a result, it is difficult to implement standardized practices across the network, and this could have an adverse effect on cost controls, regulatory compliance, business strategy, our profitability and the strength of our network. Loss of revenues or a decrease in income of our affiliated practices, including as a result of cost containment efforts by third-party payers, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenue currently depends on revenue generated by affiliated practices. Loss of revenue by the practices could seriously harm us. It is possible that our affiliated practices will not be able to maintain successful medical practices. In addition, our fees under comprehensive service agreements and our ability to collect fees under our OPS model depend upon the profitability of the practices. Any failure by the practices to contain costs effectively will adversely impact our results of operations. Because we do not control the manner in which our practices conduct their medical practice (including drug utilization), our ability to control costs related to the provision of medical care is limited. Furthermore, the affiliated practices face competition from several sources, including sole practitioners, single and multi-specialty practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. We have limited ability to discontinue or alter our service arrangements with practices, even where continuing to manage such practices under existing arrangements is economically detrimental to us. Physician practices typically bill third-party payers for the healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payers such as private insurance plans and commercial managed care plans negotiate the prices charged for medical services and supplies in order to lower the cost of the healthcare services and products they pay for and to shift the financial risk of providing care to healthcare providers. Third-party payers can also deny reimbursement for medical services and supplies by concluding that they believe a treatment was not appropriate, and these reimbursement denials are difficult to appeal or reverse. Third-party payers are also seeking to contain costs by moving certain services, particularly pharmaceutical services, outside of the physician’s office. We believe that self-injectable supportive care drugs used by oncologists, which account for approximately 12% of the pharmaceutical revenue generated by our affiliated practices in 2008, are particularly susceptible to this trend. Also, any adverse impact on the financial condition of a third party payer could subject receivables from that payer to greater collection risk. Our affiliated practices also derive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental programs. Reimbursement by governmental programs generally is not subject to negotiation and is established by governmental regulation. There is a risk that other payers could reduce rates of reimbursement to match any reduction by governmental payers. Our management fees under the comprehensive services model are dependent on the financial 24 Index to Financial Statements performance of the practices and would be adversely affected by a reduction in reimbursement. From time to time, due to market conditions and other factors, we may also renegotiate our management fee arrangements, reducing our management fee income. In addition, to the extent physician practices affiliated with us under the OPS model are impacted adversely by reduced reimbursement levels, our business could be harmed generally and receivables owed to us by those practices could be subject to greater credit risk. The development or operation of cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs, and our existing or future centers may not be profitable. The development and operation of integrated cancer centers is subject to a number of risks, including not obtaining regulatory permits or approval, delays that often accompany construction of facilities and environmental liabilities related to the disposal of radioactive, chemical and medical waste. Our strategy includes the development of additional integrated cancer centers. As of December 31, 2008, we have three cancer centers under construction, and several others in various planning stages. Any failure or delay in successfully building new integrated cancer centers, as well as liabilities from ongoing operations, could seriously harm us. New cancer centers may incur significant operating losses during their initial operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in some cases our cancer centers may not be profitable enough for us to recover our investment. We may decide to close or sell cancer centers, either because of underperformance or other market developments. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical staff and other key personnel, and we may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel to meet our hiring needs. Our ability to offer and maintain high quality service is dependent upon our ability to attract and maintain arrangements with qualified professional and technical staff and with executives on our management team. Clinical staffs at affiliated practices are practice employees, but we assist in recruiting them. There is a high level of competition for such skilled personnel among healthcare providers, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations, and there is a nationwide shortage in many specialties, including oncology nursing and technical radiation staff. We cannot assure that we or our affiliated practices will be able to hire sufficient numbers of qualified personnel or that employment arrangements with such staff can be maintained on terms advantageous to our affiliated practices or us. In addition, if one or more members of our management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we could be harmed. Our failure to remain technologically competitive in a declining payment environment for imaging and radiation services could adversely affect our business. Rapid technological advancements have been made in the radiation oncology and diagnostic imaging industry. Although we believe that our equipment and software can generally be upgraded as necessary, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing technologies might make existing equipment technologically obsolete. If such obsolescence were to occur, we may be compelled to incur significant costs to replace or modify the equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our cancer centers compete against local centers, which may own more advanced imaging or radiation therapy equipment or provide additional technologies. Our performance is dependent upon physician and patient confidence in the quality of our technology and equipment as compared to that of our competitors. Advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery and immunotherapy, or in cancer prevention techniques could reduce demand for the radiation therapy services provided at the cancer centers we operate. The development and commercialization of new radiation therapy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated practices and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our working capital could be impacted by delays in reimbursement for services. The healthcare industry is characterized by delays that can be as much as three to six months between when services are provided and when the reimbursement or payment for these services is received. Under our comprehensive service agreements, our working capital is dependent on such collections. Although we believe our collection experience is generally consistent with that of the industry, industry reimbursement practices make working capital management, including prompt 25 Index to Financial Statements and diligent billing and collection, an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. At practices affiliated under the OPS model we do not control the billing and collection function and reduced liquidity could adversely affect their ability to pay amounts owed to us. We cannot provide assurance that trends in the industry or in the economy generally will not further extend the collection period and negatively impact our or their working capital. Our services could give rise to liability to clinical trial participants and the parties with whom we contract. In connection with clinical research programs, we provide several services focused on bringing new drugs to market, which is time consuming and expensive. Such clinical research involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. Clinical research involves the inherent risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the new drugs by physicians. In certain cases, these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. In addition, under the privacy regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA, there are specific privacy standards associated with clinical trial agreements. Violations of such standards could subject us to an enforcement action by HHS. If we do not perform our services in accordance with contractual or regulatory standards, the clinical trial process and the participants in such trials could be adversely affected. These events would create a risk of liability to us from either the pharmaceutical companies with which we contract or the study participants. We also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Third parties could claim that we should be held liable for losses arising from any professional malpractice of the investigators with whom we contract or in the event of personal injury to or death of patients for the medical care rendered by third-party investigators. Although we would vigorously defend any such claims, it is possible that we could be held liable for such types of losses. We could be subject to malpractice claims and other harmful lawsuits not covered by insurance. In the past, we have been named in suits related to medical services provided by our affiliated physicians. We cannot provide assurance that claims relating to services delivered by a network physician will not be brought against us in the future. In addition, because affiliated physicians prescribe and dispense pharmaceuticals and we operate pharmacies and participate in the drug procurement and distribution process, we and our affiliated physicians could be subject to product liability claims. Although we maintain malpractice insurance, there can be no assurance that it will be adequate in the event of a judgment against us. There can be no assurance that any claim asserted against us for professional liability will not be successful. The availability and cost of professional liability insurance varies widely from state to state and is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek or at prices we are prepared to pay. Under OPS relationships, our agreements with affiliated practices have shorter terms than our comprehensive services agreements, and we have less input with respect to the business operations of the practices. Currently, most of our revenues are derived from providing comprehensive management services to practices under long-term agreements that generally have 10 to 40 year initial terms and that are not terminable except under specified circumstances. Agreements under our comprehensive services model allow us to be the exclusive provider of management services, including all services contemplated under the OPS structure, to each of the affiliated practices. In addition, under those agreements, the affiliated practices are required to bind their physicians to specified employment terms or restrictive covenants. Under the OPS structure, our agreements with affiliated practices have 1 to 3 year terms, and are more easily terminable. A number of the other input mechanisms that we currently have with respect to affiliated comprehensive services practices do not exist under our oncology pharmaceutical services model. This may increase the ability of affiliated practices to change their internal composition to our detriment and may result in arrangements that are easier for individual physicians and practices to exit, exposing us to increased credit risk and competition from other companies, especially in the pharmacy services sector. Departure of a significant number of physicians or practices from participation in our OPS structure could harm us. These risks will increase as we grow our business under the OPS structure. 26 Index to Financial Statements Changes in estimates related to the Company’s recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill, could result in an impairment of those assets. The carrying values of our fixed assets, service agreement intangibles and goodwill are tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate their recorded value may not be recoverable. The impairment review of goodwill must be based on estimated fair values. With the assistance of a third party valuation firm, we estimate the fair value of the operating segments to which goodwill has been allocated based upon widely-accepted valuation techniques, including the use of peer market multiples (on a trailing and forward basis) and discounted cash flow analysis, in the absence of market capitalization data. The Company’s goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the estimated fair value. Future adverse changes in actual or anticipated operating results, as well as unfavorable changes in economic factors and market multiples used to estimate the fair value of the Company, could result in future non-cash impairment charges. For fixed assets and service agreements, the carrying value is compared to the Company’s projected cash flows associated with the affiliated practice that is utilizing the fixed assets or that is party to the management services agreement. We may be required to recognize an impairment charge in the event these analyses indicate that our fixed assets or management service agreement intangible assets are not recoverable. Risks Relating to our Capitalization Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our current and future operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had indebtedness of approximately $1,528.6 million, including indebtedness of US Oncology Holdings, Inc in the amount of $456.8 million and obligations of US Oncology, Inc. in the amount of $1,071.8 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial condition and making it more difficult to satisfy obligations, make strategic investments, increase our service offerings or expand our network of affiliated practices. Our substantial indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • limit our ability to obtain credit from suppliers such as pharmaceutical companies on terms acceptable to us; and • restrict the ability of US Oncology, Inc. to pay dividends to Holdings in order to service Holdings’ indebtedness and interest rate swap obligation. In addition, the indentures governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we will be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. Pursuant to the indenture governing the US Oncology Holdings, Inc. senior floating rate PIK toggle notes due 2012 (the “Holdings Notes”), we may elect not to pay cash interest due on the Holdings Notes on any interest payment date and 27 Index to Financial Statements may instead elect to pay the interest due by increasing the principal amount of the Notes (“PIK” interest). In addition, we may be prohibited from paying cash interest on the Holdings Notes. US Oncology’s senior notes and senior subordinated notes also limit its ability to make restricted payments from US Oncology, including dividends paid by US Oncology to Holdings. As of December 31, 2008, US Oncology had the ability to make $29.7 million in restricted payments, which amount increases based on capital contributions to US Oncology, Inc. and by an amount equal to 50 percent of US Oncology’s net income (as defined in the indenture governing the senior notes and senior subordinated notes) and be reduced by (i) the amount of any restricted payments made and (ii) net losses of US Oncology. Delaware law also requires that US Oncology be solvent both at the time, and immediately following, a dividend payment to Holdings. Because Holdings relies on dividends from US Oncology to fund cash interest payments on its Senior Unsecured Floating Rate PIK Toggle Notes, in the event that such restrictions prevent US Oncology from paying such a dividend, Holdings would be unable to pay interest on the notes in cash and would instead be required to pay PIK interest (see Note 7 – Indebtedness). However, pursuant to the terms of those notes, the interest installment due on September 15, 2007 was paid in cash and subsequently we have settled $31.8 million of interest by increasing the principal amount of the outstanding Holdings Notes. We have also elected to settle the interest payment due March 15, 2009 entirely by increasing the principal amount of the outstanding Holdings Notes by approximately $18.9 million. The failure to pay cash interest on the notes on any interest payment date (other than the first interest payment date) does not constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes. Under such circumstances, interest will be paid in the form of PIK interest by increasing the principal amount of the Holdings Notes thus increasing our overall indebtedness. We will be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indentures governing the Holdings Notes, the existing 9% senior notes and the existing 10.75% senior subordinated notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. US Oncology’s senior secured credit facility provides for $500.0 million of term loans and revolving credit commitments of $160.0 million. At March 9, 2009, US Oncology could increase its liabilities by borrowing up to an additional $130 million under its revolving credit facility, as limited by the Company’s leverage ratio requirements under financial covenants as of December 31, 2008. The Company does not expect to service the Holdings Notes in cash and, accordingly, the outstanding balance that will mature on March 15, 2012 will likely be increased due to the issuance of additional notes to settle interest obligations. Assuming that the Company elects to settle all future interest payments in kind, and that LIBOR interest rates do not change significantly from current levels, the outstanding Holding Notes could increase to approximately $600 million at maturity. An increase in LIBOR rates of 1.00% would increase the amount due at maturity to approximately $620 million. To the extent new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. In addition, such new debt could be incurred by our subsidiaries, including US Oncology, and, as a result, the Holdings Notes would be structurally subordinated to such new indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on debt obligations including distributions of sufficient funds from US Oncology to Holdings to enable Holdings to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. Based on our financial projections, the Company will not be able to satisfy all scheduled maturities of indebtedness through cash on hand and cash generated through operations. We anticipate that, while we may be able to internally generate sufficient cash to fund no more than approximately half of the balance due under the senior secured credit facility, we will need additional external capital to satisfy the remaining amounts owed under the senior secured credit facility in either 2010 or 2011. In addition, we will be dependent upon our ability to obtain external capital to satisfy the Senior Notes and Holdings Notes maturing in 2012 and the Senior Subordinated Notes mature in 2014. The Company intends to seek additional financing to satisfy its capital needs by accessing the public or private equity markets, refinancing these obligations through issuance of new indebtedness, modifying the terms of existing indebtedness or through a combination of these alternatives. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to allow Holdings to pay its obligations under its notes or to fund our other liquidity needs, and there can be no assurance that additional financing, if available, will be made available on terms acceptable to the Company. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations. 28 Index to Financial Statements The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Our secured credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. Our senior secured credit facility includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • create liens; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make capital expenditures; • change our business; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. The senior secured credit facility also requires us to prepay amounts outstanding under that facility in an amount equal to a percentage of our excess cash flow each year (as defined in that facility). The indentures for our other indebtedness also contain numerous operating and financial covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including a limitation on the amount of these payments; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. Our senior secured credit facility also includes financial covenants that become more restrictive over time, including requirements that US Oncology maintain: • a minimum interest coverage ratio; and 29 Index to Financial Statements • a maximum leverage ratio. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the senior secured credit facility or the indentures could result in an event of default. In the event of any default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, enforce their security interest, require US Oncology to apply all of its available cash to repay these borrowings or prevent US Oncology from making debt service payments on its other indebtedness, any of which would result in an event of default under those notes. In addition, any default under the senior secured credit facility or other indebtedness would (unless the default is waived) prevent US Oncology from paying dividends to Holdings to enable Holdings to pay cash interest under the Holdings Notes. In addition, future indebtedness could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our existing indebtedness. The senior secured credit facility matures on August 20, 2011 with four quarterly installments of approximately $110 million each beginning on September 30, 2010. We anticipate that, while we may be able to internally generate sufficient cash to fund no more than approximately half of the balance due under the senior secured credit facility, we will need additional external capital to satisfy the remaining amounts owed under the senior secured credit facility in either 2010 or 2011. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if available, will be made available on terms acceptable to the Company. Holdings is the sole obligor under the Holdings Notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries, including US Oncology, do not guarantee obligations under the Holdings Notes and do not have any obligation with respect to the notes; the notes are effectively subordinated to Holdings’ existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations of Holdings’ subsidiaries, including US Oncology. Holdings is a holding company and therefore depends on its subsidiaries to service its obligations under the notes and its other indebtedness. Holdings’ ability to repay the notes depends upon the performance of its subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions. Holdings has no operations of its own and derives all of its cash flow from its subsidiaries. None of Holdings’ subsidiaries guarantee the Holdings Notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under the Holdings Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments, and the consequent rights of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ assets is structurally subordinated to the claims of any subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of those securities. As a result, the Holdings Notes are structurally subordinated to the prior payment of all of the debts (including trade payables) of Holdings’ subsidiaries. Holdings’ subsidiaries have a significant amount of indebtedness. Total consolidated balance sheet liabilities of the Company, as of December 31, 2008, were $2,114.4 million, of which $1,528.6 million constituted indebtedness, including $456.8 million of indebtedness represented by the Holdings Notes, $436.7 million of indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility, $300.0 million of the existing 9% senior notes of US Oncology, $3.0 million of the existing 9 5/ 8% senior subordinated notes of US Oncology, $275.0 million of the existing 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes of US Oncology, and other indebtedness described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. The senior secured credit facility and 9 5/8% senior subordinated notes will mature prior to the notes. In addition, at March 9, 2009, US Oncology could increase its liabilities by borrowing up to an additional $130 million under its revolving credit facility, as limited by the Company’s leverage ratio requirements under financial covenants as of December 31, 2008. Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, including under the senior secured credit facility. Holdings depends on its subsidiaries, who conduct the operations of the business, for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on the Holdings Notes. However, none of Holdings’ subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to it for payment on the Holdings Notes. The terms of the existing senior secured credit facility and the terms of the indentures governing US Oncology’s existing 9% senior notes and existing 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes restrict US Oncology and certain of its subsidiaries from, in each case, paying dividends or otherwise transferring its assets to Holdings. Such restrictions include, among others, financial covenants, prohibition of dividends in the event of default and limitations on the total amount of dividends. In addition, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing other current and future indebtedness, as well as financial condition and operating requirements of Holdings’ subsidiaries, currently limit and may, in the future, limit Holdings’ ability to obtain cash 30 Index to Financial Statements from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of Holdings’ subsidiaries, may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Holdings to make cash payments of interest in respect of the Holdings Notes when such payments are due. As previously discussed, US Oncology’s senior notes and senior subordinated notes also limit its ability to make restricted payments from US Oncology, including dividends paid by US Oncology to Holdings. We can not provide assurance that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of Holdings’ subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide Holdings with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund interest and principal payments on the Holdings Notes when due. We may not be able to fulfill our repurchase obligations in the event of a change of control. Upon the occurrence of any change of control, we will be required to make a change of control offer to repurchase a substantial portion of our indebtedness. Any change of control also would constitute a default under the senior secured credit facility. Therefore, upon the occurrence of a change of control, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility will have the right to accelerate their loans and require US Oncology to prepay all of the outstanding obligations under the senior secured credit facility. Also, the senior secured credit facility will prohibit US Oncology from making dividend payments to Holdings to enable Holdings to repurchase the Holdings Notes upon a change in control, unless US Oncology first repays all borrowings under the senior secured credit facility or obtains the consent of the lenders under the senior secured credit facility. If a change of control occurs, there can be no assurance that US Oncology will have available funds sufficient to repay all borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, to repurchase all existing notes of US Oncology and to make dividend payments to Holdings to enable it to pay the change of control purchase price for any or all of the Holdings Notes that might be delivered by holders of the Holdings Notes seeking to accept the change of control offer. Accordingly, none of the holders of our outstanding notes may receive the change of control purchase price for their notes. Our failure to make the change of control offer or pay the change of control purchase price when due would result in a default under the indentures of our notes. Our principal stockholder’s interests may conflict with the interests of other stakeholders in the Company. An investor group led by Welsh Carson IX owns approximately 61.0 percent of Holdings’ outstanding common stock and approximately 81.3% of its outstanding participating preferred stock and controls a substantial portion of the voting power of such outstanding equity securities. Welsh Carson IX’s interests in exercising control over our business may conflict with the interests of other holders of our debt and equity securities. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our cost of financing or ability to obtain financing. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we are required to furnish, an annual report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report contains an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment would include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting if any were identified by management. Effective with the year ending December 31, 2009, such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We began preparing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 during 2004. Our assessment as of December 31, 2008 indicated that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. However, in the future, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls after their report is required, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our cost of financing or our ability to obtain financing. 31 Index to Financial Statements Our business may be significantly impacted by a downturn in the economy. While we believe the patient demand for cancer care will not generally be impacted by a downturn in the economy, unfavorable economic conditions may result in some patients electing to defer treatment, as well as increased pricing pressure from payers and vendors. In addition, vendors that have historically extended credit to the Company may restrict, or eliminate, the terms on which credit is extended or require additional collateral related to these business arrangements. In addition, many of our customers and suppliers may rely on the availability of short-term financing to support their operations. An adverse change in the ability of our customers or suppliers to obtain necessary financing could disrupt their operations and, consequently, limit their ability to pay obligations owed to us or provide goods and services necessary to our operations. These events could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Any downturn in the economy could result in a reduction in the ability of our affiliated practices’ patients to pay co-insurance amounts or deductibles. In addition, increased unemployment will likely result in an increase in the number of patients not covered by adequate insurance. Even for patients who are insured, in the event a significant third party payer, such as insurance company or self-funded benefit plan of another organization encounters significant deterioration in its financial condition, receivables from such payer or other organization could be subject to delay or greater risk of uncollectibility. While we provide services to physician practices throughout the United States, individual physician practices typically have a local customer and, to a lesser extent, payer base. Therefore, we would expect that practices located in regions or localities disproportionally affected by an economic downturn, would be particularly adversely affected by such trends. Instability in the credit markets may limit our access to capital or increase our financing costs. Recent developments in both domestic and global capital markets may constrain our access to capital and increase our financing costs. While we have not historically relied on short-term borrowings to fund our operations, we maintain a $160.0 million revolving credit facility as a source of short-term financing when necessary. As of March 9, 2009, approximately $136.1 million was available for borrowing under this facility, which is net of outstanding letters of credit of $23.9 million. Also, this amount is limited to approximately $130 million due to leverage ratio requirements under financial covenants as of December 31, 2008. The credit markets have not yet stabilized and continued weakness in the financial sector creates the potential for additional failures and further consolidation, which may negatively impact the ability of institutions that participate in our revolving credit facility to satisfy their financial commitment to us. On September 29, 2008, all lenders that participate in our revolving credit facility funded their portion of a $20.0 million advance under the credit facility, as required under that facility. We cannot assure you, however, that all such lenders will fund future borrowing requests for amounts available under our revolving credit facility, which expires in August 2010, in accordance with the terms of the facility. In the event we require additional capital and are unable to utilize our existing credit facility to finance our operations, we would be required to seek alternative funding. There can be no assurance that additional funding would be available to the Company on terms that the Company considers acceptable. Additionally, any downgrades to our credit rating may increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. A substantial portion (approximately 60 percent) of our indebtedness bears interest at variable interest rates. Our indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates includes $436.7 million outstanding under our senior secured credit facility and $456.8 million PIK toggle notes issued by US Oncology Holdings, Inc. We have hedged $425.0 million of our variable rate interest exposure with an interest rate swap which, economically, reduces the portion of our indebtedness exposed to variable rate fluctuations to approximately 30 percent. To the extent market interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, and we may experience difficulty making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs. Further, our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 32 Index to Financial Statements 