Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In general, because our revenues depend upon the revenues of our affiliated practices, any risks that harm the economic performance of the practices will, in turn, harm us. Risks Relating to Our Industry Continued efforts by commercial payers to reduce reimbursement levels, change reimbursement methodologies or control the way in which services are provided could adversely affect us. Commercial payers continue to seek to negotiate lower levels of reimbursement for cancer care services, with a particular focus on reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. A disproportionate majority of affiliated practices’ profitability is attributable to reimbursement from commercial payers. There is a risk that commercial payers will seek reductions in pharmaceutical reimbursement similar to those included in the recent decisions by Medicare and Medicaid, formally the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, and in federal legislation discussed below. Any reductions in reimbursement levels could harm us and our affiliated physicians. In addition, several payers are trying to implement Mandatory Vendor Imposition programs under which cancer patients or their oncologists would be required to obtain pharmaceuticals from a third-party. That third-party, rather than the oncologist, would then be reimbursed. Private payers have the ability to implement such programs through benefit designs that offer patients significant incentives to receive drugs in this fashion as well as through negotiations with practices. As described below, HHS was required to implement a program under which oncologists may elect to receive drugs from a Medicare contractor, rather than purchase drugs and seek reimbursement. If such a program is successfully implemented for Medicare, private payers may follow. Commercial payers are also attempting to reduce reimbursement for other services, such as diagnostic imaging tests, by requiring that such tests be performed by specific providers within a given market or otherwise limiting the circumstances under which they will provide reimbursement for those services. In the event that payers succeed with these initiatives, our practices’ and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in Medicare reimbursement may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Government organizations, such as CMS are the largest payers for our collective group of affiliated practices. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the affiliated practices under comprehensive strategic alliances derived 39.2%, 38.2% and 37.8%, respectively, of their net patient revenue from services provided under the Medicare program (of which 6.9%, 5.5% and 3.8%, respectively, relates to Medicare managed care programs). As such, changes in Medicare reimbursement practices have been initiated over the past several years, are continuing through 2009, and may adversely affect our results of operations. Several changes which have and may continue to adversely affect us include: • Changes in Medicare’s average sales price, or ASP, reimbursement methodology and rates for oncology pharmaceuticals administered in physicians’ offices; • Implementation of the Competitive Acquisition Program, or CAP, which began August 1, 2006 should any affiliated practices elect to participate in this program; • CMS changes to the Practice Expense, or PE, Methodology for non-drug services reimbursement which is being phased in from 2007 to 2010; • Change in Medicare fee schedule conversion factors; • Capping of Medicare imaging reimbursement at the lower of Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System, or HOPPS, rates or Physician Fee Schedule, or PFS, or National Payment Amounts under the Deficit Reduction Act, or DRA; and 16 Index to Financial Statements • A National Coverage Determination, or NCD, issued by the CMS on July 30, 2007 eliminating coverage of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, or ESAs, for patients with certain types of cancer or receiving certain types of drug therapy, and limiting coverage of ESAs in certain other circumstances, and subsequent label change by the FDA including similar restrictions, which are discussed in greater detail below. The Obama administration has identified healthcare as a policy priority and has released an outline of its healthcare policy initiatives as they relate to the 2010 federal budget. The outline identifies guiding principles for healthcare reform and spending, which include increasing access to and affordability of healthcare, primarily by ensuring access to health insurance, increasing effectiveness of care, through effective use of technology and an emphasis on evidence-based medicine, maintaining patient choice, emphasizing preventive care and enhancing the fiscal sustainability of the U.S. healthcare system. Specific initiatives described in the outline include reducing drug costs for federal programs by increasing availability of generics and increasing the Medicaid rebates payable by pharmaceutical manufacturers to states, increasing incentives to reduce unnecessary variability in treatment and to practice evidence-based medicine, incentivizing the use of electronic medical records and other technology, and reducing unnecessary or wasteful spending. Similarly, some states in which we operate have undertaken, or are considering, healthcare reform initiatives that also address these issues. Currently, the matter of healthcare reform continues to be debated by lawmakers and we are unable to provide guidance on what the final legislation will be and how it will impact us. While many of the stated goals of the administration’s initiatives are consistent with our own mission to increase access to care that is effective, efficient and based upon the latest available scientific evidence, additional regulation and continued fiscal pressure may adversely affect our business. The reductions in Medicare reimbursement may also cause some oncologists to cease providing care in the physician office setting either by retiring from the practice of medicine or by moving to a hospital setting or they may cease charging for drugs administered in the office by choosing to obtain drugs through CAP. Any such reductions in our affiliated practices would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any reduction in the overall size of the outpatient oncology market could adversely affect our prospects for growth and business development. Recently, CMS has implemented a pilot program in which third party contractors are retained to seek recovery of allegedly erroneous payments by governmental programs and are paid based upon successful recoveries. We believe that the increasing national budget deficit, aging population and the prescription drug benefit will mean that pressure to reduce healthcare costs, and drug costs in particular, will continue to intensify. For a more complete description of the Medicare reimbursement changes and their impact on us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Reimbursement Matters.” Restrictions on reimbursement by government programs for ESAs have resulted in a material and continuing reduction in revenues and profits of our affiliated practices and us. ESAs are widely-used drugs for the treatment of anemia, which is a condition that occurs when the level of healthy red blood cells in the body becomes too low, thus inhibiting the blood’s ability to carry oxygen. Many cancer patients suffer from anemia either as a result of their disease or as a result of the treatments they receive to treat their cancer. ESAs have historically been used by oncologists to treat anemia caused by chemotherapy, as well as anemia in cancer patients who are not currently receiving chemotherapy. ESAs are administered to increase levels of healthy red blood cells and are an alternative to blood transfusions. In March, 2007, the FDA issued a public health advisory outlining new safety information, including revised product labeling, about ESAs which it later revised on November 8, 2007. In particular, the FDA highlighted studies that concluded that an increased risk of death may occur in cancer patients who are not receiving chemotherapy and who are treated with ESAs. The FDA advisory and subsequent actions led the CMS to open a NCA, on March 14, 2007, on the use of ESAs for conditions other than advanced kidney disease, which was the first step toward issuing a proposed national coverage determination. The NCD was released on July 30, 2007, and was effective as of that date. The NCD went significantly beyond limiting coverage for ESAs in patients who are not currently receiving chemotherapy that was referenced in the initial FDA advisory referred to above. The NCD included determinations that eliminate coverage for anemia not related to cancer treatment. Coverage was also eliminated for patients with certain other risk factors. In circumstances where ESA treatment is reimbursed, the NCD established conditions for Medicare coverage that (i) require that in order to commence ESA treatment, patients be significantly more anemic than was common practice prior to the NCD; (ii) impose limitations on the duration of ESA therapy and the circumstances in which it should be continued and (iii) limit dosing and dose increases in nonresponsive patients. 17 Index to Financial Statements Subsequent to the issuance of the NCD, the Oncologic Drug Advisory Committee of the FDA, or ODAC, met on March 13, 2008, to further consider the use of ESAs in oncology. Based upon the ODAC findings on July 30, 2008, FDA published final new labeling for the ESA drugs Aranesp and Procrit. Unlike the NCD from CMS, which governs reimbursement, rather than prescribing, for Medicare beneficiaries only, the FDA approved labeling indicates the conditions under which the FDA believes that use of a product is safe and effective. The revised labeling was effective as of August 14, 2008, and primarily changed the labeled use of ESAs in the following areas: • ESAs are “not indicated” for patients receiving chemotherapy when the anticipated outcome is cure; • ESA therapy should not be initiated when hemoglobin levels are ³ 10 grams per deciliter, or g/dL; and • References in the labeling to an upper limit of 12 g/dL have been removed. The FDA did not adopt an ODAC recommendation to limit ESA in head/neck and breast cancers, or any other tumor type. FDA’s action on this point significantly reduced the impact of a possible decrease in utilization. FDA also mandated implementation of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, for ESAs. A proposed REMS for ESAs was filed by ESA manufacturers with the FDA in August 2008 and approved on February 16, 2010 to become effective on March 24, 2010. The REMS is focused on ESA prescribing guidelines and requires additional patient consent, education requirements, medical guides and physician registration over a one year period beginning on March 24, 2010. The REMS also outlines additional procedural steps that will be required for qualified physicians to prescribe ESAs for their patients. Operating income attributable to ESAs administered by our network of affiliated physicians decreased $9.5 million and $25.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The operating income reflects results from our Medical Oncology Services segment which relate primarily to the administration of ESAs by practices receiving comprehensive management services and from our Pharmaceutical Services segment which includes purchases by physicians affiliated under the targeted physician services model, as well as distribution and group purchasing fees received from pharmaceutical manufacturers. As the NCD was effective July 30, 2007, the impact of reduced ESA utilization was not fully reflected in the results for the last half of 2007. In addition, there was a net increase in ESA pricing, the impacts of which are included in the 2008 financial results. We believe a possible impact of the REMS could be further reductions in ESA utilization. The significant decline in ESA usage has had a significant adverse affect on our results of operations, and, particularly, our Medical Oncology Services and Pharmaceutical Services segments, and we cannot assure you that a further decline will not occur. Decreased financial performance of affiliated practices as a result of declining ESA usage could also have an effect on their relationship with us and lead to increased pressure to amend the terms of their management services agreements. In addition, reduced utilization of ESAs may adversely impact our ability to continue to receive favorable pricing from ESA manufacturers. Decreased financial performance may also adversely impact our ability to obtain acceptable credit terms from pharmaceutical manufacturers, including pharmaceutical manufacturers of products other than ESAs. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies and their pricing and marketing practices could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals and adversely affect us. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies by government payers could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, which could harm us. Because Medicare reimbursement is no longer based on average wholesale price, or AWP, governmental scrutiny of AWP, which has been a focus of several investigations by government agencies may be expected to decline. However, many state Medicaid programs continue to reimburse for drugs on an AWP-based model. Moreover, existing and prior lawsuits and investigations regarding AWP have resulted and could continue to result in significant settlements that include corporate integrity agreements affecting pharmaceutical manufacturer behavior. Corporate integrity agreements subject healthcare providers, including pharmaceutical manufacturers, to burdensome and costly monitoring and reporting requirements to the Office of Inspector General of the HHS. Additionally, many of the concerns of government agencies will continue to apply under any reimbursement model. Because our network is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals, the other services we provide to, and relationships we have with pharmaceutical manufacturers, could be subject to scrutiny to the extent they are not viewed as bona fide arms length relationships or are inappropriately linked to pharmaceutical purchasing. Furthermore, possibly in response to such scrutiny as well as significant adverse coverage by the 18 Index to Financial Statements media, some pharmaceutical manufacturers could alter pricing or marketing strategies that increase the cost of pharmaceuticals to oncologists, which in turn could adversely affect us. Finally, because our network of affiliated practices participates in a group purchasing organization that is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals paid for by government programs, we or our network of affiliated practices have become involved in these investigations or lawsuits, and are the target of such pharmaceutical-related scrutiny. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. ASP-based reimbursement could make it more difficult for us to obtain favorable pricing from pharmaceutical companies. Historically, one of our key business strengths has been our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that we believe is better than prices widely available in the marketplace. Starting January 1, 2005, Medicare began reimbursing for oncology pharmaceuticals based on 106% of the average price at which pharmaceutical companies sell those drugs to oncologists and other users, so that any discount to any purchaser would have the effect of reducing reimbursement for drugs administered in all physician offices. We believe that this change has made pharmaceutical companies more reluctant to offer market-differentiated pricing to us or reduced the degree of such differentiation. Any decrease in our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that is more favorable than the market as a whole could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, particularly under our targeted physician services model, and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Continued migration from branded to generic pharmaceuticals may negatively impact our operating results. The Company continues to experience a shift of certain branded single source drugs to generic status. For each newly generic drug, the Company’s earnings typically temporarily increase because drug cost declines significantly, while reimbursement remains at the branded price for a period of months. However, after reimbursement adjusts, the Company’s earnings with respect to a generic drug are typically significantly lower than the earnings from a branded pharmaceutical. The timing and impact of a particular pharmaceutical becoming available in generic form is difficult to predict because of potential delays resulting from legal challenges that often arise in connection with the introduction of new generic compounds and uncertainty regarding how generic products will be priced in the marketplace. However, the Company has identified three currently branded products, which represent approximately 11% of its revenue related to pharmaceuticals, which may become available in generic form during the year ending December 31, 2010. In addition, certain pharmaceuticals that become available in generic form may revert back to the branded product as a result of settlements between generic and branded pharmaceutical manufacturers related to patent enforceability and other matters. Due to uncertainty regarding the price, timing and duration of potential reentry of branded products, we cannot estimate the financial impact of such changes. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may directly or indirectly, reduce our revenues and harm our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Several areas of regulatory compliance that may affect our ability to conduct business include: • federal and state anti-kickback laws; • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, also known as the Stark Law; • federal and state false claims laws; • state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; • state laws regarding prohibitions on fee splitting; • federal and state laws regarding pharmacy regulations; • federal and state laws regarding pharmaceutical distribution; and • federal and state laws and regulations applicable to the privacy and security of health information and other personal information. 19 Index to Financial Statements These federal and state laws and regulations are extremely complex. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. It also is possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. In addition, federal and state agencies responsible for enforcement and interpretation of these laws, as well as courts, continue to issue new interpretations and change prior interpretations of these laws, including some changes that may have an adverse impact on our operations or require us to alter certain of our business arrangements. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement or perception that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our affiliated practices, hospitals and other healthcare providers with which we, or our affiliated practices, have entered into various arrangements are also heavily regulated. To the extent that our arrangements with these parties or their independent activities fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. For a more complete description of these regulations, see “Business—Government Regulation.” We face the risk of governmental investigation and qui tam litigation relating to regulations governing billing for medical services. The federal government is aggressive in examining billing practices and seeking repayments and penalties allegedly resulting from improper billing and reimbursement practices. In addition, federal and some state laws authorize private whistleblowers to bring false claim, or qui tam suits, on behalf of the government and reward the whistleblower with a portion of any final recovery. We have previously been named in qui tam suits. In each of the qui tam suits naming us of which we are aware, the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, has not intervened and such suits have been dismissed. However, because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such suits of which we are not aware. For the past several years, the number of qui tam suits filed against healthcare companies and the aggregate amount of recoveries under such suits have increased significantly. This trend increases the risk that we may become subject to additional qui tam lawsuits. Although we believe that our operations comply with applicable laws and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against allegations of wrongdoing, the costs of addressing such suits, as well as the amount of any recovery in the event of a finding of wrongdoing on our part, could be significant. The existence of qui tam litigation involving us may also strain our relationships with our affiliated physicians, particularly those physicians or practices named in such suits, or with our pharmaceutical suppliers. In previous qui tam suits of which we have been made aware, the DOJ has declined to intervene in such suits and the suits have been dismissed. Qui tam suits are brought by private individuals, and there is no minimum evidentiary or legal threshold for bringing such a suit. The DOJ is legally required to investigate the allegations in these suits. The subject matter of many such claims may relate both to our alleged actions and alleged actions of an affiliated practice. Because the affiliated practices are separate legal entities not controlled by us, such claims necessarily involve a more complicated, higher cost of defense, and may adversely impact the relationship between the practices and us. If the individuals who file complaints and/or the United States were to prevail in these claims against us, and the magnitude of the alleged wrongdoing were determined to be significant, the resulting judgment could have a material adverse financial and operational effect on us, including potential limitations in future participation in governmental reimbursement programs. In addition, addressing complaints and government investigations requires us to devote significant financial and other resources to the process, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the claims. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We have existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, some of whom have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and managerial resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their services. These competitors may also undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees. We also expect our competitors to develop additional strategic relationships with providers, pharmaceutical companies and payers, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced services, acquisitions, industry consolidation and the development of additional strategic relationships by our competitors could cause 20 Index to Financial Statements price competition, a decline in revenue or a loss of market acceptance of our services, or make our services less attractive. Additionally, in developing cancer centers, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions unavailable to us. Such organizations may be willing to provide services at rates lower than we would require to operate profitably. With respect to research activities, the competitive landscape is fragmented, with competitors ranging from small limited-service providers to large full-service contract research organizations with global operations. Some of these large contract research organizations have access to more financial resources than we do. Industry forces are affecting us and our competitors. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, limits in Medicare coverage and reimbursement levels, consolidation of healthcare service companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. The changes in our industry have caused greater competition among industry participants. Our inability to predict accurately, or react competitively to, changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Most of our revenues come from pharmaceuticals, and an adverse impact on the way in which pharmaceuticals are reimbursed or purchased by us would have an adverse impact on our business. During 2009, approximately 70% of the patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices under comprehensive strategic alliances was attributable to pharmaceuticals. Under the comprehensive strategic alliances, our medical oncology revenues are dependent on the earnings of our affiliated practices related to pharmaceuticals. Under the targeted physician services model, our revenues are dependent on use of pharmaceuticals by affiliated practices. Because revenues attributable to pharmaceuticals and our ability to procure pharmaceuticals at competitive prices are such a significant part of the affiliated practices’ earnings and, consequently, our revenues, factors that adversely affect those revenues, such as changes in reimbursement or usage, or the cost structure underlying those revenues are likely to adversely affect our business. In addition, there is a risk that a change in treatment patterns or reduction in use of a particular drug could result from new scientific findings or regulatory or reimbursement actions, as has occurred with ESAs. Any such change that impacts a significant amount of pharmaceutical utilization would adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of pharmaceuticals manufactured and sold by a very limited number of suppliers and any termination or modification of relations with those suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of a limited number of pharmaceutical products manufactured and sold by a very limited number of, or in several cases, a single manufacturer. During 2009, approximately 40% of patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices resulted from pharmaceuticals sold exclusively by five pharmaceutical manufacturers. Included among these are ESAs, which accounted for 5.3% of our 2009 revenue and a larger proportion of our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, and net income. In addition, a limited number of pharmaceutical manufacturers are responsible for a disproportionately large amount of market-differentiated pricing we offer to practices. Our agreements with these pharmaceutical manufacturers are typically for one to three years but are cancelable by either party without cause. Further, several of the agreements provide favorable pricing that can be adjusted periodically based on specified volume levels, growth levels, or a specified level of use of a specific drug as a percentage of the overall use of drugs within a given therapeutic class. In some cases, compliance with the contract is measured on a quarterly basis and pricing concessions are given in the form of rebates payable at the end of the measurement period. Unanticipated changes in usage patterns, including changes in reimbursement policies such as those which may affect ESAs or the introduction of standardized treatment regimens or 21 Index to Financial Statements clinical pathways that disfavor a given drug, could result in lower-than-anticipated utilization of a given pharmaceutical product, and cause us to fail to attain the performance levels required to earn rebates. A departure of a significant number of physicians from our network could also cause us to fail to reach contract targets. Failure to attain performance levels could result in our not earning rebates, including cost-reductions that may already have been reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, certain pharmaceutical manufacturers pay rebates under multi-product agreements. Under these types of agreements, our pricing on several products could be adversely impacted based upon our failure to meet predetermined targets with respect to any single product. Any termination or adverse adjustment to these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to negotiate the purchase of pharmaceuticals on behalf of our network of affiliated physicians, or to expand the scope of pharmaceuticals purchased, from a particular supplier at prices below those generally offered to all oncologists is largely dependent upon such supplier’s assessment of the value of our network. Many pharmaceuticals used by our affiliated physicians are single-sourced drugs and available from only one manufacturer and, accordingly, the lack of competitive products makes differentiated pricing difficult to achieve. To the extent that our pharmaceutical services structure or other factors cause pharmaceutical suppliers to perceive our network as less valuable, our relationships and any pricing advantages with such suppliers could be harmed. Our inability to negotiate prices of pharmaceuticals with any of our significant suppliers at prices below those generally available to all oncologists could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our centralized business operations, particularly our distribution operation, may be adversely affected by business interruptions resulting from events that are beyond our control. Our centralized business operations, particularly our distribution operation, may be adversely affected by business interruptions resulting from events that are beyond our control. We have only one pharmaceutical distribution facility, which is located in Fort Worth, Texas. In addition, certain of our other business functions are centralized at our headquarters in The Woodlands, Texas. A significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities, whether as a result of natural disaster or other unexpected damage from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-in, terrorist attacks, acts of war and other events, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business and adversely impact our and our affiliated practices’ operations. If we seek to replicate our centralized operations at other locations, we will face a number of technical as well as financial challenges, which we may not be able to address successfully. In particular, with respect to distribution, although we and our affiliated practices would be able to obtain pharmaceuticals from other sources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a price that is comparable or in as efficient a manner as through our own distribution operation. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. A significant portion of our revenues are represented by our affiliate practice, Texas Oncology, P.A., or Texas Oncology. A deterioration of our relationship with this practice or any adverse effects on this practice could significantly harm our business. One affiliated practice, Texas Oncology, represented approximately 25% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. We perceive our relationship with this practice to be positive, however if the relationship were to deteriorate, or the practice were to disaffiliate, we would experience a material, adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If our affiliated practices terminate their agreements with us, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices under certain circumstances are allowed, and may attempt, to terminate their agreements with us. If any of our larger practices were to succeed in such a termination, our business could be seriously harmed. From time to time, we have disputes with physicians and practices that could result in harmful changes to our relationship with them or a termination of a service agreement if adversely determined. We are also aware that some practices that are not part of our network but which are affiliated with other companies, have attempted to end or restructure their affiliations with such companies, although they may not have a contractual right to do so, by arguing that their affiliations violate some aspect of healthcare law and have been successful in doing so. Specifically, we are involved in litigation with a practice in Oklahoma that was affiliated with us under the net revenue model (a subset of what is now the comprehensive strategic alliance model) until April, 2006. While we were still 22 Index to Financial Statements affiliated with the practice, we initiated arbitration proceedings pursuant to a provision in the service agreement providing for contract reformation in certain events. The practice countered with a lawsuit that alleges, among other things, that we have breached the service agreement and that our service agreement is unenforceable as a matter of public policy due to alleged violations of healthcare laws. The practice sought unspecified damages and a termination of the contract. We believe that our service agreement is lawful and enforceable and that we are operating in accordance with applicable law. As a result of alleged breaches of the service agreement by the practice, we terminated the service agreement in April, 2006. In March 2007, the Oklahoma Supreme Court overturned a lower court’s ruling that would have compelled arbitration in this matter and remanded the case back to the lower court to hold hearings to determine whether and to what extent the arbitration provisions of the service agreement will be applicable to the dispute. We expect these hearings to occur in 2010. Because of the need for further proceedings, we believe that the Oklahoma Supreme Court ruling will extend the amount of time it will take to resolve this dispute and increase the risk of the litigation to us. In any event, as with any complex litigation, we anticipate that this dispute may take several years to resolve. As a result of the ongoing litigation, we have been unable to collect on a timely basis a receivable owed to us relating to accounts receivable purchased by us under the service agreement and amounts for reimbursement of expenses paid by us on the practice’s behalf. At December 31, 2009, the total receivable owed to us of $22.4 million is reflected on our balance sheet as other assets. Currently, a deposit of approximately $14.8 million is held in an escrowed bank account into which the practice has been making monthly deposits as required. In late 2009, the practice filed a motion to discontinue the monthly deposits and until a ruling is made the requirement has been suspended. These amounts will be released upon resolution of the litigation. In addition, approximately $7.6 million is being held in a bank account that has been frozen pending the outcome of related litigation regarding that account. In addition, we have filed a security lien on the receivables of the practice. We believe that the amounts held in the bank accounts combined with the receivables of the practice in which we have filed a security lien represent adequate collateral to recover the $22.4 million receivable recorded as other noncurrent assets at December 31, 2009. Accordingly, we expect to realize the amount that we believe to be owed by the practice. However, realization is subject to a successful conclusion to the litigation with the practice, and we cannot assure you as to when the litigation will be finally concluded or as to what the ultimate outcome of the litigation will be. We expect to continue to incur expenses in connection with our litigation with the practice. In addition to loss (if any) of revenue from a particular practice, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If some of our affiliated physicians or affiliated practices terminate their affiliation with us, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If a significant number of physicians leave our affiliated practices, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices usually enter into employment or non-competition agreements with their physicians that provide some assurance to both the practice and to us with respect to continuing affiliation. We and our affiliated practices seek to maintain and renew such contracts once they expire. We cannot predict whether a court will enforce the non-competition covenants in these agreements. If practices are unable to enforce these non-competition provisions or otherwise enforce these employment agreements, physicians may leave our network and compete with our affiliated practices. In addition, physicians leave our network from time to time as a result of retirement, disability or death. In addition to loss of revenue from departing physicians, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If a significant number of physicians terminated relationships with our affiliated practices, our business could be seriously harmed. We are subject to numerous legal proceedings, many of which could be material. See Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings for description. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. Qualified oncologists are in short supply nationwide, and we expect this shortage, relative to patient demand, to continue or worsen. There can be no assurance that our affiliated groups will be successful in recruiting or retaining physicians. Our affiliated practices may also encounter other difficulties attracting additional physicians and expanding their operations or may choose not to do so. The failure of practices to expand their patient base and increase revenues could harm us. 23 Index to Financial Statements Our affiliated practices may be unsuccessful in obtaining favorable contracts with third-party payers, which could result in lower operating margins. We facilitate negotiation of commercial payer contracts and advise our affiliated physicians accordingly under our comprehensive strategic alliance model. Commercial payers, such as managed care organizations, often request fee structures or alternative reimbursement methodologies that could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated physicians and therefore, on our operating results. Reductions in reimbursement rates for services offered by our affiliated physicians and other commercial payer cost containment measures could affect our liquidity and results of operations with respect to our comprehensive strategic alliances. We may encounter difficulties in managing our network of affiliated practices. We do not control the practice of medicine by the physicians or their compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to the practices. At the same time, an affiliated practice may have difficulty in effectively governing the practices of its individual physicians. In addition, we have only limited control over the business decisions of the practices even under the comprehensive strategic alliance model. As a result, it is difficult to implement standardized practices across the network, and this could have an adverse effect on cost controls, regulatory compliance, business strategy, our profitability and the strength of our network. Loss of revenues or a decrease in income of our affiliated practices, including as a result of cost containment efforts by third-party payers, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenue currently depends on revenue generated by affiliated practices. Loss of revenue by the practices could seriously harm us. It is possible that our affiliated practices will not be able to maintain successful medical practices. In addition, our fees under comprehensive strategic alliances and our ability to collect fees under our targeted physician services model depend upon the profitability of the practices. Any failure by the practices to contain costs effectively will adversely impact our results of operations. Because we do not control the manner in which our practices conduct their medical practice (including drug utilization), our ability to control costs related to the provision of medical care is limited. Furthermore, the affiliated practices face competition from several sources, including sole practitioners, single and multi-specialty practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. We have limited ability to discontinue or alter our service arrangements with practices, even where continuing to manage such practices under existing arrangements is economically detrimental to us. Physician practices typically bill third-party payers for the healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payers such as private insurance plans and commercial managed care plans negotiate the prices charged for medical services and supplies in order to lower the cost of the healthcare services and products they pay for and to shift the financial risk of providing care to healthcare providers. Third-party payers can also deny reimbursement for medical services and supplies by concluding that they believe a treatment was not appropriate, and these reimbursement denials are difficult to appeal or reverse. Third-party payers are also seeking to contain costs by moving certain services, particularly pharmaceutical services, outside of the physician’s office. We believe that self-injectable supportive care drugs used by oncologists, which account for approximately 9% of the pharmaceutical revenue generated by our affiliated practices in 2009, are particularly susceptible to this trend. Also, any adverse impact on the financial condition of a third party payer could subject receivables from that payer to greater collection risk. Our affiliated practices also derive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental programs. Governmental programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, are collectively the affiliated practices’ largest payers. For 2009, the affiliated practices under comprehensive strategic alliances derived 39.2% of their net patient revenue from services provided under the Medicare program (of which 6.9%, relates to Medicare managed care). Reimbursement by governmental programs generally is not subject to negotiation and is established by governmental regulation. There is a risk that other payers could reduce rates of reimbursement to match any reduction by governmental payers. Our management fees under the comprehensive strategic alliance model are dependent on the financial performance of the practices and would be adversely affected by a reduction in reimbursement. From time to time, due to market conditions and other factors, we may also renegotiate our management fee arrangements, reducing our management fee income. In addition, to the extent physician practices affiliated with us under a targeted physician services model are impacted adversely by reduced reimbursement levels, our business could be harmed generally and receivables owed to us by those practices could be subject to greater credit risk. 24 Index to Financial Statements The development or operation of cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs, and our existing or future centers may not be profitable. The development and operation of integrated cancer centers is subject to a number of risks, including not obtaining regulatory permits or approval, delays that often accompany construction of facilities and environmental liabilities related to the disposal of radioactive, chemical and medical waste. Our strategy includes the development of additional integrated cancer centers. As of December 31, 2009, we have two cancer center under construction, and several others in various planning stages. Any failure or delay in successfully building new integrated cancer centers, as well as liabilities from ongoing operations, could seriously harm us. New cancer centers may incur significant operating losses during their initial operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in some cases our cancer centers may not be profitable enough for us to recover our investment. We may decide to close or sell cancer centers, either because of underperformance or other market developments. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical staff and other key personnel, and we may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel to meet our hiring needs. Our ability to offer and maintain high quality service is dependent upon our ability to attract and maintain arrangements with qualified professional and technical staff and with executives on our management team. Clinical staffs at affiliated practices are practice employees, but we assist in recruiting them. There is a high level of competition for such skilled personnel among healthcare providers, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations, and there is a nationwide shortage in many specialties, including oncology nursing and technical radiation staff. We cannot assure that we or our affiliated practices will be able to hire sufficient numbers of qualified personnel or that employment arrangements with such staff can be maintained on terms advantageous to our affiliated practices or us. In addition, if one or more members of our management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we could be harmed. Our failure to remain technologically competitive in a declining payment environment for imaging and radiation services could adversely affect our business. Rapid technological advancements have been made in the radiation oncology and diagnostic imaging industry. Although we believe that our equipment and software can generally be upgraded as necessary, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing technologies might make existing equipment technologically obsolete. If such obsolescence were to occur, we may be compelled to incur significant costs to replace or modify the equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our cancer centers compete against local centers, which may own more advanced imaging or radiation therapy equipment or provide additional technologies. Our performance is dependent upon physician and patient confidence in the quality of our technology and equipment as compared to that of our competitors. Advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery and immunotherapy, or in cancer prevention techniques could reduce demand for the radiation therapy services provided at the cancer centers we operate. The development and commercialization of new radiation therapy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated practices and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our working capital could be impacted by delays in reimbursement for services. The healthcare industry is characterized by delays that can be as much as three to six months between when services are provided and when the reimbursement or payment for these services is received. Under our comprehensive strategic alliances, our working capital is dependent on such collections. Although we believe our collection experience is generally consistent with that of the industry, industry reimbursement practices make working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. At practices affiliated under the targeted physician services model we do not control the billing and collection function and reduced liquidity could adversely affect their ability to pay amounts owed to us. We cannot provide assurance that trends in the industry or in the economy generally will not further extend the collection period and negatively impact our or their working capital. 25 Index to Financial Statements Our services could give rise to liability to clinical trial participants and the parties with whom we contract. In connection with clinical research programs, we provide several services focused on bringing new drugs to market, which is time consuming and expensive. Such clinical research involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. Clinical research involves the inherent risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the new drugs by physicians. In certain cases, these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. In addition, under the privacy regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA, there are specific privacy standards associated with clinical trial agreements. Violations of such standards could subject us to an enforcement action by HHS. If we do not perform our services in accordance with contractual or regulatory standards, the clinical trial process and the participants in such trials could be adversely affected. These events would create a risk of liability to us from either the pharmaceutical companies with which we contract or the study participants. We also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Third parties could claim that we should be held liable for losses arising from any professional malpractice of the investigators with whom we contract or in the event of personal injury to or death of patients for the medical care rendered by third-party investigators. Although we would vigorously defend any such claims, it is possible that we could be held liable for such types of losses. We could be subject to malpractice claims and other harmful lawsuits not covered by insurance. In the past, we have been named in suits related to medical services provided by our affiliated physicians. We cannot provide assurance that claims relating to services delivered by a network physician will not be brought against us in the future. In addition, because affiliated physicians prescribe and dispense pharmaceuticals and we operate pharmacies and participate in the drug procurement and distribution process, we and our affiliated physicians could be subject to product liability claims. Although we maintain malpractice insurance, there can be no assurance that it will be adequate in the event of a judgment against us. There can be no assurance that any claim asserted against us for professional liability will not be successful. The availability and cost of professional liability insurance varies widely from state to state and is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek or at prices we are prepared to pay. Under targeted physician service relationships, our agreements with affiliated practices have shorter terms than our comprehensive strategic alliances, and we have less input with respect to the business operations of the practices. Currently, most of our revenues are derived from providing comprehensive management services to practices under long-term agreements that generally have 10 to 40 year initial terms and that are not terminable except under specified circumstances. Agreements under our comprehensive strategic alliance model allow us to be the exclusive provider of management services, including all services contemplated under the targeted physician services structure, to each of the affiliated practices. In addition, under those agreements, the affiliated practices are required to bind their physicians to specified employment terms or restrictive covenants. Under the targeted physician services structure, our agreements with affiliated practices have 1 to 3 year terms, and are more easily terminable. A number of the other input mechanisms that we currently have with respect to affiliated comprehensive strategic alliance practices do not exist under our targeted physician services model. This may increase the ability of affiliated practices to change their internal composition to our detriment and may result in arrangements that are easier for individual physicians and practices to exit, exposing us to increased credit risk and competition from other companies, especially in the pharmacy services sector. Departure of a significant number of physicians or practices from participation in our targeted physician services structure could harm us. These risks will increase as we grow our business under the targeted physician services structure. Changes in estimates related to our recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill, could result in an impairment of those assets. The carrying values of our fixed assets, service agreement intangibles and goodwill are tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate their recorded value may not be recoverable. The impairment review of goodwill must be based on estimated fair values. With the assistance of a third party valuation 26 Index to Financial Statements firm, we estimate the fair value of the operating segments to which goodwill has been allocated based upon widely-accepted valuation techniques, including the use of peer market multiples (on a trailing and forward basis) and discounted cash flow analysis, in the absence of market capitalization data. Our goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the estimated fair value. Future adverse changes in actual or anticipated operating results, as well as unfavorable changes in economic factors and market multiples used to estimate our fair value, could result in future non-cash impairment charges. For fixed assets and service agreements, the carrying value is compared to our projected cash flows associated with the affiliated practice that is utilizing the fixed assets or that is party to the management services agreement. We may be required to recognize an impairment charge in the event these analyses indicate that our fixed assets or management service agreement intangible assets are not recoverable. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our cost of financing or ability to obtain financing. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we are required to furnish, an annual report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report contains an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment would include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting if any were identified by management. Effective with the year ending December 31, 2010, such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our assessment as of December 31, 2009 indicated that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. However, in the future, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if, for the year ending December 31, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion that our internal controls are effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our cost of financing or our ability to obtain financing. Our business may be significantly impacted by a downturn in the economy. While we believe the patient demand for cancer care will not generally be impacted by a downturn in the economy, unfavorable economic conditions may result in some patients electing to defer treatment, as well as increased pricing pressure from payers and vendors. In addition, vendors that have historically extended credit to the Company may restrict, or eliminate, the terms on which credit is extended or require additional collateral related to these business arrangements. In addition, many of our customers and suppliers may rely on the availability of short-term financing to support their operations. An adverse change in the ability of our customers or suppliers to obtain necessary financing could disrupt their operations and, consequently, limit their ability to pay obligations owed to us or provide goods and services necessary to our operations. These events could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Any downturn in the economy could result in a reduction in the ability of our affiliated practices’ patients to pay co-insurance amounts or deductibles. In addition, increased unemployment will likely result in an increase in the number of patients not covered by adequate insurance. Even for patients who are insured, in the event a significant third party payer, such as an insurance company or self-funded benefit plan of another organization, encounters significant deterioration in its financial condition, receivables from such payer or other organization could be subject to delay or greater risk of uncollectibility. While we provide services to physician practices throughout the United States, individual physician practices typically have a local customer and, to a lesser extent, payer base. Therefore, we would expect that practices located in regions or localities disproportionally affected by an economic downturn, would be particularly adversely affected by such trends and, in fact, we believe that such practices are already experiencing a rise in uncollectibility. 27 Index to Financial Statements The current economic environment may increase our exposure to bad debt or decrease demand for cancer care. We continue to experience downward trends in reimbursement, which has been exacerbated as a result of the current economic environment. As more patients become uninsured as a result of job losses or receive reduced coverage as a result of cost-control measures by employers, patients are becoming increasingly responsible for the cost of treatment, which is increasing our exposure to bad debt. The shifting responsibility to pay for care has, in some instances, resulted in patients electing not to receive treatment. Third party payers are also becoming more aggressive in their efforts to deny or reduce reimbursement. In response to this environment, we have accelerated cost reduction efforts and our ongoing lean six sigma process to improve the efficiency of care delivery, increased the rigor of its patient financial counseling and claim submission processes, raised its capital investment requirements and tightened our management of working capital. Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulation could increase our costs. For example, we believe that there is a potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. To the extent that climate change increases the risk of natural disasters or other disruptive events in the areas in which we operate, we could be harmed. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. Risks Relating to our Capitalization Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our current and future operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our total debt was approximately $1,578.8 million, including indebtedness of US Oncology Holdings, Inc in the amount of $494.0 million and obligations of US Oncology, Inc. in the amount of $1,084.9 million. On August 26, 2009, we terminated our then existing senior secured credit facility and entered into a new senior secured revolving credit facility which allows us to borrow up to $120.0 million (under which availability has been reduced by $30.4 million for outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2009). Our total debt as of December 31, 2009 excludes $89.6 million of unused commitments under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial condition and thus making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, make strategic investments, increase our service offerings or expand our network of affiliated practices. Our substantial indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • limit our ability to obtain credit from suppliers such as pharmaceutical companies on terms acceptable to us; and • restrict the ability of US Oncology, Inc. to pay dividends to Holdings in order to service Holdings’ indebtedness and interest rate swap obligation. In addition, the indentures governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. 28 Index to Financial Statements Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the 9.125% senior secured notes, the indenture governing the 10.75% senior subordinated notes, the indenture governing Holdings’ senior unsecured floating rate toggle notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. On August 26, 2009, we terminated our then existing senior secured credit facility and entered into a new senior secured revolving credit facility which will allow us to borrow up to $120.0 million (under which availability has been reduced by $30.4 million for outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2009). As of December 31, 2009, our senior secured revolving credit facility provided for unused commitments of $89.6 million. Pursuant to the indenture governing Holdings’ senior floating rate PIK toggle notes due 2012, we may elect not to pay cash interest due on the Holdings notes on any interest payment date and may instead elect to pay the interest due by increasing the principal amount of the notes, known as PIK interest. In addition, we may be prohibited from paying cash interest on the Holdings notes. US Oncology’s senior notes and senior subordinated notes also limit its ability to make restricted payments from US Oncology, including dividends paid by US Oncology to Holdings. As of December 31, 2009, US Oncology had the ability to make $26.5 million in restricted payments, which amount increases based on capital contributions to US Oncology, Inc. and by an amount equal to 50 percent of US Oncology’s net income (as defined in the indenture governing the senior notes and senior subordinated notes) and be reduced by (i) the amount of any restricted payments made and (ii) net losses of US Oncology. Delaware law also requires that US Oncology be solvent both at the time, and immediately following, a dividend payment to Holdings. Because Holdings relies on dividends from US Oncology to fund cash interest payments on its notes, in the event that such restrictions prevent US Oncology from paying such a dividend, Holdings would be unable to pay interest on the notes in cash and would instead be required to pay PIK interest (see Note 7 – Indebtedness). However, pursuant to the terms of those notes, the interest installment due on September 15, 2007 was paid in cash and subsequently we have settled $69.0 million of interest, including $37.2 million during 2009, by increasing the principal amount of the outstanding Holdings notes. We have also elected to settle the interest payment due March 15, 2010 entirely by increasing the principal amount of the outstanding Holdings notes by approximately $15.7 million. The failure to pay cash interest on the notes on any interest payment date (other than the first interest payment date) does not constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes. Under such circumstances, interest will be paid in the form of PIK interest by increasing the principal amount of the Holdings notes thus increasing our overall indebtedness. We do not expect to service the Holdings notes in cash and, accordingly, the outstanding balance that will mature on March 15, 2012 will likely be increased due to the issuance of additional notes to settle interest obligations. Assuming that we elect to settle all future interest payments in kind, and that London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, interest rates do not change significantly from current levels, the outstanding Holdings notes could increase to approximately $584 million at maturity. An increase in LIBO rates of 1.00% would increase the amount due at maturity to approximately $596 million. To the extent new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. In addition, such new debt could be incurred by our subsidiaries, including US Oncology, and, as a result, the Holdings notes would be structurally subordinated to such new indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on debt obligations including distributions of sufficient funds from US Oncology to Holdings to enable Holdings to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition, the payment and reimbursement practices in our industry require significant amounts of working capital because of delays that often occur between the time that a claim is submitted for payment and the date payment is actually received. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that 29 Index to Financial Statements currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that additional financing, if available, will be made available on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Additionally, any downgrades to our credit rating may increase the cost and reduce the availability of any refinancing. We may not be able to satisfy all scheduled maturities of indebtedness through cash on hand and cash generated through operations. We may be dependent upon our ability to obtain external capital to satisfy the Holdings notes maturing in 2012 and the senior subordinated notes maturing in 2014. We may be required to seek additional financing to satisfy its capital needs by accessing the public or private equity markets, refinancing these obligations through issuance of new indebtedness, modifying the terms of existing indebtedness or through a combination of these alternatives. The terms of our senior secured notes, senior secured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Our senior secured notes, senior secured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. Our senior secured notes and senior secured revolving credit facility both include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • create liens; • sell assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make capital expenditures; • change our business; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. The indentures for our other indebtedness also contain numerous operating and financial covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including a limitation on the amount of these payments; • create liens; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • make investments and acquisitions; • change our business; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. Our senior secured revolving credit facility also includes a requirement that we maintain a maximum leverage ratio. 30 Index to Financial Statements With respect to the covenant limiting asset sales, US Oncology may be obligated (based on certain thresholds) to make prepayment offers on the senior secured notes of up to 100% of “allocable excess proceeds”, as defined by the notes indenture, from any such sale. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the senior secured revolving credit facility or the indentures could result in an event of default. In the event of any default under the senior secured revolving credit facility, the lenders under that facility could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, enforce their security interest, require US Oncology to apply all of its available cash to repay these borrowings or prevent US Oncology from making debt service payments on its other indebtedness, any of which would result in an event of default under those notes. In addition, any default under the senior secured revolving credit facility or other indebtedness would (unless the default is waived) prevent US Oncology from paying dividends to Holdings to enable Holdings to pay cash interest under the Holdings notes. In addition, future indebtedness could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our existing indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. On August 26, 2009, we terminated our then-existing senior secured credit facility and entered into a new senior secured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, our cash on hand and unused commitments under our senior secured revolving credit facility were $161.8 million and $89.6 million, respectively. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition, the payment and reimbursement practices in our industry require significant amounts of working capital because of delays that often occur between the time that a claim is submitted for payment and the date payment is actually received. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Additionally, any downgrades to our credit rating may increase the cost and reduce the availability of any refinancing. We must refinance existing indebtedness. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon us. The maturities of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes and our 9.625% senior subordinated notes are August 15, 2014 and February 1, 2012, respectively. In addition, the maturity of the senior unsecured floating rate toggle notes of Holdings is March 15, 2012 and the maturity of our senior secured revolving credit facility is August 31, 2012. Based on our financial projections, we will not be able to satisfy all of our and Holdings’ scheduled maturities through cash on hand and cash generated through operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance this indebtedness, or whether any refinancing will be on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability and Holdings’ ability to complete a refinancing of any of such indebtedness is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. If we or Holdings are unsuccessful, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility, the holders of any of our notes and the holders of Holdings’ notes could demand repayment of the indebtedness owed to them on the relevant maturity date. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to meet our debt service obligations. Holdings’ senior unsecured floating rate toggle notes bear interest at variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, $494 million aggregate principal amount of such indebtedness was outstanding. Holdings has entered into an interest rate swap agreement with respect to such indebtedness, fixing the LIBOR base rate at 4.97% through maturity. Holdings’ Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 include a liability of $32.9 million and $30.5 million, respectively, to reflect the fair market value of the interest rate swap as of that date. Holdings relies on distributions from US Oncology and its subsidiaries to make any payments on the interest rate swap. Furthermore, the interest rate swap is secured ratably with the senior secured revolving credit facility. To the extent market interest rates continue to decrease (or stay at the current levels), Holdings may experience difficulty making scheduled payments on such obligations and funding its other 31 Index to Financial Statements fixed costs due to restrictions that limit the ability of US Oncology to make distributions to Holdings. The semiannual payment obligations on the interest rate swap increase by $2.1 million for each 1.00% that the fixed interest rate of 4.97% paid to the counterparty exceeds the variable interest rate received from the counterparty. Similarly, the semiannual payment obligations on the interest rate swap decrease by $2.1 million when the difference between the fixed interest rate paid to the counterparty and the variable interest rate received from the counterparty reduces by 1.00%. Holdings is the sole obligor under the Holdings notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries, including US Oncology, do not guarantee obligations under the Holdings notes and do not have any obligation with respect to the notes; the notes are effectively subordinated to Holdings’ existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations of Holdings’ subsidiaries, including US Oncology. Holdings is a holding company and therefore depends on its subsidiaries to service its obligations under the notes and its other indebtedness. Holdings’ ability to repay the notes depends upon the performance of its subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions. Holdings has no operations of its own and derives all of its cash flow from its subsidiaries. None of Holdings’ subsidiaries guarantee the Holdings notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under the Holdings notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments, and the consequent rights of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ assets is structurally subordinated to the claims of any subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of those securities. As a result, the Holdings notes are structurally subordinated to the prior payment of all of the debts (including trade payables) of Holdings’ subsidiaries. Holdings’ subsidiaries have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our total Consolidated Balance Sheet liabilities, as of December 31, 2009, were $2,179.1 million, of which $1,578.8 million constituted indebtedness, including $494.0 million of indebtedness represented by the Holdings notes, $759.7 million of the 9 1/8% senior secured notes of US Oncology, $3.0 million of the 9 5/8% senior subordinated notes of US Oncology, $275.0 million of the 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes of US Oncology, and other indebtedness described in Note 7 – Indebtedness to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009. Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future. Holdings depends on its subsidiaries, who conduct the operations of the business, for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on the Holdings notes. However, none of Holdings’ subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to it for payment on the Holdings notes. The terms of the senior secured revolving credit facility and the terms of the indentures governing US Oncology’s 9 1/8% senior secured notes and 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes restrict US Oncology and certain of its subsidiaries from, in each case, paying dividends or otherwise transferring its assets to Holdings. Such restrictions include, among others, financial covenants, prohibition of dividends in the event of default and limitations on the total amount of dividends. In addition, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing other current and future indebtedness, as well as financial condition and operating requirements of Holdings’ subsidiaries, currently limit and may, in the future, limit Holdings’ ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of Holdings’ subsidiaries, may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Holdings to make cash payments of interest in respect of the Holdings notes when such payments are due. As previously discussed, US Oncology’s senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes also limit its ability to make restricted payments from US Oncology, including dividends paid by US Oncology to Holdings. We can not provide assurance that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of Holdings’ subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide Holdings with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund interest and principal payments on the Holdings notes when due. A substantial portion of our assets are held by, and a substantial portion of our income is derived from, our subsidiaries, and the debt of our subsidiary guarantors may restrict payment on our indebtedness. We hold a substantial portion of assets through our subsidiaries and derive a substantial portion of our operating income from our subsidiaries. We are dependent on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, pay to us amounts necessary to service our debt. In certain circumstances, the credit agreement governing the senior secured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our other indebtedness will permit our subsidiary guarantors to enter into agreements that can limit our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. In the event we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. 32 Index to Financial Statements Not all of our subsidiaries guarantee our indebtedness, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on our indebtedness. The guarantors of our indebtedness does not include all of our subsidiaries. In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to us. Consequently, claims in respect of certain indebtedness will be effectively subordinated to all of the liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade payables, and the claims (if any) of any third party holders of preferred equity interests in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. We may not be able to fulfill our repurchase obligations in the event of a change of control. Upon the occurrence of any change of control, we will be required to make a change of control offer to repurchase a substantial portion of our indebtedness. Any change of control also would constitute a default under the senior secured notes and the senior secured revolving credit facility. Therefore, upon the occurrence of a change of control, the lenders under the senior secured notes and the senior secured revolving credit facility would have the right to accelerate their loans and require US Oncology to prepay all of the outstanding obligations under those agreements. Also, the senior secured notes and the senior secured revolving credit facility prohibit US Oncology from making dividend payments to Holdings to enable Holdings to repurchase the Holdings notes upon a change in control, unless US Oncology first repays all borrowings under the senior secured notes and the senior secured revolving credit facility or obtains the consent of the lenders under those agreements. If a change of control occurs, there can be no assurance that US Oncology will have available funds sufficient to satisfy our obligations under the senior secured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our other indebtedness and to pay the change of control purchase price for any or all of the notes issued by us that might be delivered by holders of the notes seeking to accept the change of control offer. Accordingly, none of the holders of our outstanding notes may receive the change of control purchase price for their notes. Our failure to make the change of control offer or pay the change of control purchase price when due would result in a default under the indentures of our notes. The collateral that secures our senior secured notes and revolving credit facility may not be valuable enough to satisfy all of the obligations secured by such collateral. Obligations under our senior secured notes and revolving credit facility are secured by the pledge of certain of our assets. Holders of such obligations will share in any proceeds of the collateral in the event it is sold to satisfy such obligations, in accordance with their respective priorities. The actual value of the collateral at any time will depend upon market and other economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. We cannot assure you that proceeds of a sale of collateral following acceleration to maturity of any of our secured obligations would be sufficient to satisfy such obligations. Bankruptcy laws may limit the ability of holders of the notes to realize value from the collateral. The right of the trustee to repossess and dispose of the collateral upon the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture governing our senior secured notes is likely to be significantly impaired by applicable bankruptcy law if a bankruptcy case were to be commenced by or against us before the trustee repossessed and disposed of the collateral. For example, under Title 11 of the United States Code, or the United States Bankruptcy Code, pursuant to the automatic stay imposed upon the bankruptcy filing, a secured creditor is prohibited from repossessing its security from a debtor in a bankruptcy case, or from disposing of security repossessed from such debtor, or taking other actions to levy against a debtor, without bankruptcy court approval. Moreover, the United States Bankruptcy Code permits the debtor to continue to retain and to use collateral even though the debtor is in default under the applicable debt instruments, provided that the secured creditor is given “adequate protection.” The meaning of the term “adequate protection” may vary according to circumstances (and is within the discretion of the bankruptcy court), but it is intended in general to protect the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral and may include cash payments or the granting of additional security, if and at such times as the court in its discretion determines, for any diminution in the value of the collateral as a result of the automatic stay of repossession or disposition or any use of the collateral by the debtor during the pendency of the bankruptcy case. Generally, adequate protection payments, in the form of interest or otherwise, are not required to be paid by a debtor to a secured creditor unless the bankruptcy court determines that the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral is declining during the pendency of the bankruptcy case. Due to the imposition of the automatic stay, the lack of a precise definition of the term “adequate protection” and the broad discretionary powers of a bankruptcy court, it is impossible to predict (1) how long payments under the notes could be delayed following commencement of a bankruptcy case, (2) whether or when the trustee could repossess or dispose of the collateral or (3) whether or to what extent holders of the notes would be compensated for any delay in payment or loss of value of the collateral through the requirement of “adequate protection.” The collateral is subject to casualty risks. We are obligated under the indenture governing our senior secured notes, and under our new senior secured revolving credit facility to at all times 33 Index to Financial Statements cause all the collateral to be properly insured and kept insured against loss or damage by fire or other hazards. There are, however, some losses, including losses resulting from terrorist acts, that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, in whole or in part. As a result, we cannot assure holders of notes that the insurance proceeds will compensate us fully for our losses. If there is a total or partial loss of any of the collateral, we cannot assure holders of the notes that the proceeds received by us in respect thereof will be sufficient to satisfy all the secured obligations, including the notes. In the event of a total or partial loss to any of the mortgaged facilities, certain items of equipment and inventory may not be easily replaced. Accordingly, even though there may be insurance coverage, the extended period needed to manufacture replacement units or inventory could cause significant delays. Any future pledge of collateral in favor of the holders of the notes might be voidable in bankruptcy. Any future pledge of collateral in favor of the holders of our senior secured notes, including pursuant to security documents delivered after the date of the indenture governing the notes, might be voidable by the pledgor (as debtor in possession) or by its trustee in bankruptcy if certain events or circumstances exist or occur, including, under the United States Bankruptcy Code, if the pledgor is insolvent at the time of the pledge, the pledge permits the holders of the notes to receive a greater recovery than if the pledge had not been given and a bankruptcy proceeding in respect of the pledgor is commenced with 90 days following the pledge, or, in certain circumstances, a longer period. We will in most cases have control over the collateral. The security documents governing our senior secured notes and revolving credit facility generally allow us and the guarantors to remain in possession of, retain exclusive control over, to freely operate, and to collect, invest and dispose of any income from, the collateral. These rights may adversely affect the value of the collateral at any time. Our principal stockholder’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other stakeholders. As of December 31, 2009, an investor group led by Welsh Carson IX owned approximately 73% of Holdings’ outstanding common stock and controls a substantial portion of the voting power of such common stock. Welsh Carson IX’s interests in exercising control over our business may conflict with the interests of other holders of our debt and equity securities. 34 Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 