Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In general, because our revenues depend upon earnings of our affiliated practices, any risks that harm the economic performance of the affiliated practices will, in turn, harm us. Risks Relating to Our Industry Most of our revenues come from pharmaceuticals, and an adverse impact on the way in which pharmaceuticals are reimbursed or purchased by us would have an adverse impact on our business. During 2005, approximately 75% of the patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices was attributable to pharmaceuticals. Under the comprehensive services model, our revenues are dependent on the earnings of our affiliated practices. Because revenues attributable to pharmaceuticals and our ability to procure pharmaceuticals at competitive prices are such a significant part of the affiliated practice’s earnings and, consequently, our revenues, factors that adversely affect those revenues or the cost structure underlying those revenues are likely to adversely affect our business. The risk factors below discuss several of those factors and others affecting our business. Continued efforts by commercial payors to reduce reimbursement levels or change the manner in which pharmaceuticals are reimbursed could adversely affect us. Commercial payors continue to seek to negotiate lower levels of reimbursement for cancer care services, with a particular focus on reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. A disproportionate majority of affiliated practices’ profitability is attributable to reimbursement from commercial payors. There is a risk that commercial payors will seek reductions in pharmaceutical reimbursement similar to those included in the recent federal legislation discussed below. Any reductions in reimbursement levels could harm us and our affiliated physicians. In addition, several payors are trying to implement Mandatory Vendor Imposition (“MVI”) programs under which cancer patients or their oncologists would be required to obtain pharmaceuticals from a third-party. That third-party, rather than the oncologist, would then be reimbursed. Private payors have the ability to implement such programs through benefit designs that offer patients significant incentives to receive drugs in this fashion as well as through negotiations with practices. As described below, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, was required to implement a program under which oncologists may elect to receive drugs from a Medicare contractor, rather than purchase drugs and seek reimbursement. If such a program is successfully implemented for Medicare, private payors may follow. In the event that payors succeed with these initiatives, our practices’ and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in Medicare reimbursement will adversely affect our results of operations. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare changed the method by which it reimburses providers for oncology pharmaceuticals administered in physicians’ offices, including those in the US Oncology network. Medicare now pays oncologists average sales price (“ASP”) for drugs plus 6%. Previously, Medicare reimbursed physicians for oncology pharmaceuticals based on average wholesale price (“AWP”), which is significantly higher than ASP. This shift in reimbursement methodology represented approximately a 15% reduction in reimbursement for oncology pharmaceuticals paid during the first quarter of 2005, as compared to 2004 levels. Since implementation, ASP has been adjusted quarterly. We experienced a further 7.5% cumulative decrease in Medicare reimbursement, based on these quarterly adjustments, during the year ended December 31, 2005. The adverse impact of ASP implementation has been partially mitigated by the overall growth of affiliated practices’ revenues. The decline in oncology pharmaceutical reimbursement has been partially offset by payments for certain data relating to symptom management for cancer patients (“the Medicare Demonstration Project”). For 2005, the Medicare Demonstration Project was projected by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to add an aggregate of $260 million in Medicare payments to oncologists across the United States. CMS recently announced the continuation of the project for 2006. The continuation includes substantial revisions to the program to gather more specific information relevant to the quality of care for cancer patients. Reporting will no longer be specific to chemotherapy, but instead will be focused 16 Index to Financial Statements on physician evaluation and management. CMS reports that they expect the demonstration project payments to be $150 million, or a 42.3% reduction from 2005 levels. We expect that reduced reimbursement under the Medicare Demonstration Project will negatively impact EBITDA in 2006 by approximately $5-6 million based on application of revised rates to our 2005 results. Adoption of ASP pricing by Medicare, combined with the importance of pharmaceuticals to our business and concentration of our purchases with a limited number of manufacturers, represents a significant risk for the Company. Nearly all of our pricing advantage relative to ASP is derived from purchases of drugs from a small number of manufacturers. Implementation of ASP-based reimbursement has reduced the amount of differential pricing that is available to us from pharmaceutical manufacturers, which is one of our key competitive strengths. CMS is also required to implement the Competitive Acquisition Program (“CAP”). Under CAP, physician practices may opt to have an external supplier provide the drugs and biologicals administered in the physician’s office to the patient and bill Medicare. The program is initially scheduled to begin on July 1, 2006. An interim “final rule” on CAP that is still subject to comment would exclude from the calculation of ASP sales of drugs furnished under the CAP for a period of three years. Medicare reimbursement for services of physicians is based on a fee schedule, which establishes payment for a given service, in relation to actual resources used in providing the service, through the application of relative value units (“RVUs” or “units”). RVUs are intended to reflect the intensity of the physicians’ work, practice expenses and geographic variations in costs. The units are converted into a dollar amount of reimbursement through a conversion factor. CMS updates the conversion factor each year based on a formula. For 2006, application of the formula resulted in a 4.4% decrease in the conversion factor, and when combined with a modification for budget neutrality, the conversion factor was slated to decrease by 4.5%. As of January 1, 2006 the decrease went into effect and claims were paid at the lower amount. On February 1, 2006 Congress passed, and on February 8, 2006 the President signed into law, the Deficit Reduction Act (“DRA”) that contained a provision freezing the Conversion Factor at 2005 levels for 2006. CMS will reprocess claims with 2006 dates of service that have been paid at the lower Conversion Factor and reimburse providers at the higher rate. The provision freezing the conversion factor is effective only for 2006. If Congress does not revise the formula-derived conversion factor between now and December 31, 2006, Medicare reimbursement for physician services could decrease by 4-6% effective January 1, 2007. If applied to annualized 2005 reimbursements, the decrease would have reduced EBITDA by $5-7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Also, there is a likelihood that if Congress does not revise the conversion factor, reimbursement for some managed care contracts linked to Medicare reimbursement would decrease ratably. The Deficit Reduction Act also contained a provision affecting imaging reimbursement. The technical component of the physician fee schedule payments for physician-office imaging services has been capped at the Hospital Outpatient Department (“HOPD”) rates effective January 1, 2007. The impact on US Oncology affiliated practices primarily relates to reduced reimbursement for PET, PET/CT and CT services. By applying the 2007 reimbursement levels to 2005 results, EBITDA would be expected to decrease $5-7 million. In addition, the Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule published in November 2005, contained a reduction in payments for multiple imaging procedures performed on contiguous body parts on the same day. This provision will be implemented over two years beginning January 1, 2006. If the full impact of this provision is applied to 2005 results, reimbursement for 2005 would have decreased by $1.2 million. Other matters that could impact our future results include the risk factors described herein, as well as: • changes in our business, including new cancer centers, PET system installations or otherwise expanding operations of affiliated physician groups; • the extent to which non-governmental payors change their reimbursement rates; • changes in practice performance or behavior, including the extent to which physicians continue to administer drugs to Medicare patients, or changes in our contracts with physicians; 17 Index to Financial Statements • changes in our cost structure or the cost structure of affiliated practices, including any change in the prices our affiliated practices pay for drugs; and • any other changes in reimbursement or practice activity that are unrelated to the prescription drug legislation. The reductions in Medicare reimbursement may also cause some oncologists to cease providing care in the physician office setting either by retiring from the practice of medicine, by moving to a hospital setting or beginning in 2006 choosing to obtain drugs through CAP. Any such reductions in our affiliated practices would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any reduction in the overall size of the outpatient oncology market could adversely affect our prospects for growth and business development. We believe that the increasing U.S. budget deficit, aging U.S. population and newly enacted prescription drug benefit will mean that pressure to reduce healthcare costs, drug costs in particular, will continue to intensify. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies and their pricing and marketing practices could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals and adversely affect us. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies by government payors could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, which could harm us. Recent federal legislation discussed above may reduce governmental scrutiny of AWP, which has been a focus of several investigations by government agencies, since Medicare reimbursement is no longer based on AWP. However, many state Medicaid programs continue to reimburse for drugs on an AWP-based model. Moreover, existing and prior lawsuits and investigations have resulted and could continue to result in significant settlements that include corporate integrity agreements affecting pharmaceutical manufacturer behavior. Corporate integrity agreements subject a healthcare provider, including pharmaceutical manufacturers, to burdensome and costly monitoring and reporting requirements to the Office of Inspector General of the HHS. Additionally, many of the concerns of government agencies will continue to apply under any model. Furthermore, possibly in response to such scrutiny as well as significant adverse coverage by the media, some pharmaceutical manufacturers could alter pricing or marketing strategies that increase the cost of pharmaceuticals to oncologists, which in turn could adversely affect us. Finally, because our network of affiliated practices participates in a group purchasing organization that is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals paid for by government programs, we or our network of affiliated practices have become involved in these investigations or lawsuits, and are the target of such pharmaceutical-related scrutiny. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. The new reimbursement methodology under Medicare could make it more difficult for us to obtain favorable pricing from pharmaceutical companies. Historically, one of our key business strengths has been our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that we believe is better than prices widely available in the marketplace. Starting January 1, 2005, Medicare began reimbursing for oncology pharmaceuticals based on 106% of the average price at which pharmaceutical companies sell those drugs to oncologists and other users, so that any discount to any purchaser would have the effect of reducing reimbursement for drugs administered in all physician offices. This may make pharmaceutical companies more reluctant to offer market-differentiated pricing to us or may cause them to reduce the degree of such differentiation. We believe that these trends are already present in the marketplace. In addition, the new reimbursement regime may have other, unanticipated effects on pricing of pharmaceuticals. Any decrease in our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that is more favorable than the market as a whole could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain new customers and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may directly or indirectly, reduce our revenues and harm our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Several areas of regulatory compliance that may affect our ability to conduct business include: • federal and state anti-kickback laws; 18 Index to Financial Statements • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, which is also referred to as the Stark Law; • federal and state false claims laws; • state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; • state laws regarding prohibitions on fee splitting; • federal and state laws regarding pharmacy regulations; • federal and state laws regarding pharmaceutical distribution; and • federal and state laws and regulations applicable to the privacy and security of certain health information and the use of electronic transactions and codes sets, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and implementing regulations. These federal and state laws and regulations are extremely complex. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. It also is possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement or perception that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our affiliated practices, hospitals and other healthcare providers with which we, or our affiliated practices, have entered into various arrangements are also heavily regulated. To the extent that our arrangements with these parties or their independent activities fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. For a more complete description of these regulations, see “Government Regulation.” We operate in a highly competitive industry. We have existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, some of whom have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and managerial resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their services. These competitors may also undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees. We also expect our competitors to develop additional strategic relationships with providers, pharmaceutical companies and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced services, acquisitions, industry consolidation and the development of additional strategic relationships by our competitors could cause price competition, a decline in revenue or a loss of market acceptance of our services, or make our services less attractive. Additionally, in developing cancer centers, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions unavailable to us. Such organizations may be willing to provide services at rates lower than we would require to operate profitably. With respect to research activities, the competitive landscape is fragmented, with competitors ranging from small limited-service providers to large full-service contract research organizations with global operations. Some of these large contract research organizations have access to more financial resources than we do. We expect that industry forces will have an impact on us and our competitors. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, limits in Medicare coverage and reimbursement levels, consolidation of healthcare service companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. The changes in our industry have caused greater competition among industry participants. Our inability to predict accurately, or react competitively to, changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Index to Financial Statements Risks Relating to Our Business We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of pharmaceuticals manufactured and sold by a very limited number of suppliers and any termination or modification of relations with those suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of pharmaceuticals manufactured and sold by a very limited number of manufacturers. During 2005, approximately 46% of patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices resulted from pharmaceuticals sold exclusively by five manufacturers. In addition, a limited number of manufacturers are responsible for a disproportionately large amount of market-differentiated pricing we offer to practices. Our agreements with these manufacturers are typically for one to two years and are cancelable by either party without cause with 30 days prior notice. Further, several of the agreements provide favorable pricing that is adjusted quarterly based on specified volume levels or a specified level of use of a specific drug as a percentage of overall use of drugs within a given therapeutic class. In some cases, compliance with the contract is measured on an annualized basis and pricing concessions are given in the form of rebates payable at the end of the measurement period. Unanticipated changes in usage patterns, including the introduction of standardized treatment regimens or clinical pathways that disfavor a given drug, could result in lower-than-anticipated utilization of a given pharmaceutical product, and cause us to fail to attain the performance levels required to earn rebates. A departure of a significant number of physicians from our network could also cause us to fail to reach contract targets. Failure to attain performance levels could result in our not earning rebates, including cost-reductions that may already have been reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, certain manufacturers pay rebates under multi-product agreements. Under these types of agreements, our pricing on several products could be adversely impacted based upon our failure to meet predetermined targets with respect to any single product. Any termination or adverse adjustment to these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to negotiate the purchase of pharmaceuticals on behalf of our network of affiliated physicians, or to expand the scope of pharmaceuticals purchased, from a particular supplier at prices below those generally offered to all oncologists is largely dependent upon such supplier’s assessment of the value of our network. Many pharmaceuticals used by our affiliated physicians are single-sourced drugs and available from only one manufacturer. To the extent that our service line structure or other factors cause pharmaceutical suppliers to perceive our network as less valuable, our relationships and any pricing advantages with such suppliers could be harmed. Our inability to negotiate prices of pharmaceuticals with any of our significant suppliers at prices below those generally available to all oncologists could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice’s Civil Litigation Division (“DOJ”) requesting a broad range of information about us and our business, generally in relation to our contracts and relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers. We are in the process of responding to the subpoena and intend to cooperate fully with the DOJ. At the present time, the DOJ has not made any specific allegation of wrongdoing on the part of the Company. However, we cannot provide assurance that such an allegation or litigation will not result from this investigation. While we believe that we are operating and have operated our business in compliance with law, including with respect to the matters covered by the subpoena, we cannot provide assurance that the DOJ will not make a determination that wrongdoing has occurred. In addition, we are devoting significant resources to responding to the DOJ subpoena and anticipate that such resources will be required on an ongoing basis to fully respond to the subpoena. If our affiliated practices terminate their agreements with us, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices under certain circumstances are allowed, and may attempt, to terminate their agreements with us. If any of our larger practices were to succeed in such a termination, other than in connection with a transition to our service line structure, our business could be seriously harmed. From time to time, we have disputes with physicians and practices that could result in harmful changes to our relationship with them or a termination of a service agreement if adversely determined. We are also aware that some practices that are not part of our network but which are affiliated with other companies, have attempted to end or restructure their affiliations with such companies, although they may not have a contractual right to do so, by arguing that their affiliations violate some aspect of healthcare law and have been successful in 20 Index to Financial Statements doing so. We are currently involved in litigation with one affiliated practice comprising 36 physicians in which that practice has alleged that our service agreement is unenforceable as a matter of public policy because of such alleged violations. We have also alleged breach and given notice to the practice that we intend to terminate the agreement during the second quarter of 2006 if its breaches are not cured. Termination of a service agreement may require us to recognize charges relating to impairment of goodwill and the intangible asset relating to that agreement, as well as causing us to lose revenue associated with that agreement. In addition to loss (if any) of revenue from a particular practice, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If some of our affiliated physicians or affiliated practices terminate their affiliation with us, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If a significant number of physicians leave our affiliated practices, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices usually enter into employment or non-competition agreements with their physicians that provide some assurance to both the practice and to us with respect to continuing affiliation. We and our affiliated practices seek to maintain and renew such contracts once they expire. We cannot predict whether a court will enforce the non-competition covenants in these agreements. If practices are unable to enforce these non-competition provisions or otherwise enforce these employment agreements, physicians may leave our network and compete with our affiliated practices. In addition, physicians leave our network from time to time as a result of retirement, disability or death. In addition to loss of revenue from departing physicians, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If a significant number of physicians terminated relationships with our affiliated practices, our business could be seriously harmed. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. Our affiliated practices may encounter difficulties attracting additional physicians and expanding their operations or may choose not to do so. The failure of practices to expand their patient base and increase revenues could harm us. Our affiliated practices may be unsuccessful in obtaining favorable contracts with third-party payors, which could result in lower operating margins. We facilitate negotiation of commercial payor contracts and advise our affiliated physicians accordingly under our comprehensive services model. Commercial payors, such as managed care organizations, often request fee structures or alternative reimbursement methodologies that could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated physicians and therefore, on our operating results. Reductions in reimbursement rates for services offered by our affiliated physicians and other commercial payor cost containment measures could affect our liquidity and results of operations with respect to our comprehensive service agreements. We may encounter difficulties in managing our network of affiliated practices. We do not control the practice of medicine by the physicians or their compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to the practices. At the same time, an affiliated practice may have difficulty in effectively governing the practices of its individual physicians. In addition, we have only limited control over the business decisions of the practices even under the comprehensive services model. As a result, it is difficult to implement standardized practices across the network, and this could have an adverse effect on cost controls, regulatory compliance, business strategy, our profitability and the strength of our network. Our service fee arrangements for our net revenue model practices subject us to disproportionate economic risk. Under a net revenue model service agreement, the practice retains a fixed portion of net revenue before any service fee (other than practice operating costs) is paid to us. Under net revenue agreements, therefore, we disproportionately bear the economic impact of increasing or declining margins. During the year ended December 31, 2005, 5.8% of our revenues under the comprehensive services model were derived from practices that were on the net revenue model. If we are not successful in converting remaining practices, then continuing to provide services to these practices under the net revenue model 21 Index to Financial Statements agreements could have an adverse effect on us. We have been in discussions with a net revenue model practice, comprising 36 physicians, regarding its affiliation with us and will likely seek to terminate our affiliation with that practice if we cannot negotiate a transition to the earnings model or service line model. We are currently in litigation with that practice. In order to effectuate such transitions or disaffiliations, we will need to negotiate terms with the physician groups in question. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Termination of a service agreement may require us to recognize charges relating to impairment of goodwill and the intangible asset relating to that agreement, as well as cause us to lose revenue associated with that agreement. Loss of revenues or a decrease in income of our affiliated practices, including as a result of cost containment efforts by third-party payors, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenue currently depends on revenue generated by affiliated practices. Loss of revenue by the practices could seriously harm us. It is possible that our affiliated practices will not be able to maintain successful medical practices. In addition, our fees under comprehensive service agreements depend upon the profitability of the practices. Any failure by the practices to contain costs effectively will adversely impact our results of operations. Because we do not control the manner in which our practices conduct their medical practice (including drug utilization), our ability to control costs related to the provision of medical care is limited. Furthermore, the affiliated practices face competition from several sources, including sole practitioners, single and multi-specialty practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. We have limited ability to discontinue or alter our service arrangements with practices, even where continuing to manage such practices under existing arrangements is economically detrimental to us. Physician practices typically bill third-party payors for the healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payors such as private insurance plans and commercial managed care plans negotiate the prices charged for medical services and supplies in order to lower the cost of the healthcare services and products they pay for and to shift the financial risk of providing care to healthcare providers. Third-party payors can also deny reimbursement for medical services and supplies by concluding that they believe a treatment was not appropriate, and these reimbursement denials are difficult to appeal or reverse. Third-party payors are also seeking to contain costs by moving certain services, particularly pharmaceutical services, outside of the physician’s office. We believe that self-injectable supportive care drugs used by oncologists, which account for approximately 36% of the pharmaceutical revenue generated by our affiliated practices, are particularly susceptible to this trend. Our affiliated practices also derive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental programs. Reimbursement by governmental programs generally is not subject to negotiation and is established by governmental regulation. There is a risk that other payors could reduce rates of reimbursement to match any reduction by governmental payors. Our management fees under the comprehensive services model are dependent on the financial performance of the practices and would be adversely affected by a reduction in reimbursement. In addition, to the extent oncologists that are our customers under the service line model are impacted adversely by reduced reimbursement levels, our business could be harmed generally. The development or operation of cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs, and our existing or future centers may not be profitable. The development and operation of integrated cancer centers is subject to a number of risks, including not obtaining regulatory permits or approval, delays that often accompany construction of facilities and environmental liabilities related to the disposal of radioactive, chemical and medical waste. Our strategy includes the development of additional integrated cancer centers. We have three cancer centers under construction, and several others in various planning stages. Any failure or delay in successfully building new integrated cancer centers, as well as liabilities from ongoing operations, could seriously harm us. New cancer centers may incur significant operating losses during their initial operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in some cases our cancer centers may not be profitable enough for us to recover our investment. We may decide to close or sell cancer centers, either because of underperformance or other market developments. In-sourcing of our oncology pharmacy distribution business is subject to daily operational risk and requires significant investment in capital. During 2005, we implemented an oncology pharmaceutical distribution function to serve our network of affiliated practices. The in-sourcing of distribution poses new operating risks, including the investment in infrastructure, inventory and personnel, and managing an efficient distribution function. These activities required significant capital expenditures during 22 Index to Financial Statements 2005 and further capital will be invested in inventory at the distribution center in first quarter of 2006, and on a continuing basis, in addition to maintaining inventory at the affiliated practices. Finally, becoming a distributor subjects us to additional licensing and regulatory requirements. Disruptions in distribution as a result of operational difficulties could adversely impact the financial performance of our affiliated practices and our relations with them, and could adversely impact our ability to recover our investment in our oncology pharmaceutical distribution business or adversely impact our financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical staff and other key personnel, and we may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel to meet our hiring needs. Our ability to offer and maintain high quality service is dependent upon our ability to attract and maintain arrangements with qualified professional and technical staff and with executives on our management team. Clinical staffs at affiliated practices are practice employees, but we assist in recruiting them. There is a high level of competition for such skilled personnel among healthcare providers, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations, and there is a nationwide shortage in many specialties, including oncology nursing and technical radiation staff. In addition, recently there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of physician recruitment activities by hospitals, and there can be no assurance that this will not adversely affect our recruitment of qualified personnel. We cannot assure that we or our affiliated practices will be able to hire sufficient numbers of qualified personnel or that employment arrangements with such staff can be maintained on terms advantageous to our affiliated practices or us. In addition, if one or more members of our management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we could be harmed. Our failure to remain technologically competitive could adversely affect our business. Rapid technological advancements have been made in the radiation oncology and diagnostic imaging industry. Although we believe that our equipment and software can generally be upgraded as necessary, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing technologies might make existing equipment technologically obsolete. If such obsolescence were to occur, then we may be compelled to incur significant costs to replace or modify the equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our cancer centers compete against local centers, which may contain more advanced imaging or radiation therapy equipment or provide additional technologies. Our performance is dependent upon physician and patient confidence in the quality of our technology and equipment as compared to that of our competitors. Advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery and immunotherapy, or in cancer prevention techniques could reduce demand or eliminate the need for the radiation therapy services provided at the cancer centers we operate. The development and commercialization of new radiation therapy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated practices and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our working capital could be impacted by delays in reimbursement for services. The healthcare industry is characterized by delays that can be as much as three to six months between when services are provided and when the reimbursement or payment for these services is received. Under our comprehensive service agreements, our working capital is dependent on such collections. Although we believe our collection experience is generally consistent with that of the industry, industry reimbursement practices make working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot provide assurance that trends in the industry will not further extend the collection period and negatively impact our working capital. We face the risk of governmental investigation and qui tam litigation relating to regulations governing billing for medical services. The federal government has become more aggressive in examining billing practices and seeking repayments and penalties allegedly resulting from improper billing and reimbursement practices. Federal and some state laws authorize private whistleblowers to bring false claim, or qui tam suits, on behalf of the government and reward the whistleblower with a portion of any final recovery. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such suits of which we are not aware. For the past several years, the number of qui tam suits filed against healthcare companies and the aggregate amount of recoveries under such suits have increased significantly. This trend increases the risk that we may become subject to additional qui tam lawsuits. 23 Index to Financial Statements Although we believe that our operations comply with applicable laws and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against allegations of wrongdoing, the costs of addressing such suits, as well as the amount of any recovery in the event of a finding of wrongdoing on our part, could be significant. The existence of qui tam litigation involving us may also strain our relationships with our affiliated physicians, particularly those physicians or practices named in such suits, or with our pharmaceutical suppliers. Our services could give rise to liability to clinical trial participants and the parties with whom we contract. In connection with clinical research programs, we provide several services that are involved in bringing new drugs to market, which is time consuming and expensive. Such clinical research involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. Clinical research involves the inherent risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the new drugs by physicians. In certain cases, these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. In addition, under the privacy regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA, there are specific privacy standards associated with clinical trial agreements. Violations of such standards could subject us to an enforcement action by HHS. If we do not perform our services to contractual or regulatory standards, the clinical trial process and the participants in such trials could be adversely affected. These events would create a risk of liability to us from either the pharmaceutical companies with which we contract or the study participants. We also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Third parties could claim that we should be held liable for losses arising from any professional malpractice of the investigators with whom we contract or in the event of personal injury to or death of persons for the medical care rendered by third-party investigators. Although we would vigorously defend any such claims, it is possible that we could be held liable for such types of losses. We could be subject to malpractice claims and other harmful lawsuits not covered by insurance. In the past, we have been named in suits related to medical services provided by our affiliated physicians. We cannot provide assurance that claims relating to services delivered by a network physician will not be brought against us in the future. In addition, because affiliated physicians prescribe and dispense pharmaceuticals and we operate pharmacies and participate in the drug procurement and distribution process, we and our affiliated physicians could be subject to product liability claims. Although we maintain malpractice insurance, there can be no assurance that it will be adequate in the event of a judgment against us. There can be no assurance that any claim asserted against us for professional liability will not be successful. The availability and cost of professional liability insurance varies widely from state to state and is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek or at prices we are prepared to pay. Under the service line structure, our agreements with affiliated practices have shorter terms than our comprehensive services agreements, and we have less input with respect to the business operations of the practices. Currently, most of our revenues are derived from providing comprehensive management services to practices under long-term agreements that generally have 25 to 40 year initial terms and that are not terminable except under specified circumstances. Agreements under our comprehensive services model allow us to be the exclusive provider of management services, including each of the services contemplated under the service line structure, to each of the affiliated practices. In addition, under those agreements, the affiliated practices are required to bind their physicians to specified employment terms or restrictive covenants. Under the service line structure, our agreements with affiliated practices have shorter terms, and are more easily terminable. A number of the other input mechanisms that we currently have with respect to affiliated comprehensive services practices do not exist under our oncology pharmaceutical services service line model. This may increase the ability of affiliated practices to change their internal composition to our detriment and may result in arrangements that are easier for individual physicians and practices to exit, exposing us to increased competition from other companies, especially in the pharmacy services sector. Departure of a significant number of physicians or practices from participation in our service line structure could harm us. These risks will increase if we successfully grow our business under the service line structure. 24 Index to Financial Statements Risks Relating to our Capitalization Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our current and future operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had indebtedness of approximately $991.2 million. Additionally, our parent company, US Oncology Holdings, has indebtedness of $250.0 million and will rely on us to provide funds necessary to service these obligations. Our substantial indebtedness that could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial condition and making it more difficult to satisfy obligations, make strategic investments, increase our service offerings or expand our network of affiliated practices. Our substantial indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the indentures governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on debt obligations including distributions of sufficient funds from US Oncology to Holdings to enable Holdings to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to allow Holdings to pay its obligations under its notes or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets subject to restrictions in our debt agreements, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot provide assurance that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Our secured credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. Our senior secured credit facility includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; 25 Index to Financial Statements • create liens; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make capital expenditures; • change our business; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. The indentures our other indebtedness also contain, numerous operating and financial covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including a limitation on the amount of these payments; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of its assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. Our senior secured credit facility also includes financial covenants, including requirements that US Oncology maintain: • a minimum interest coverage ratio; and • a maximum leverage ratio. These financial covenants will become more restrictive over time. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the senior secured credit facility or the indentures could result in an event of default. In the event of any default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, enforce their security interest, require US Oncology to apply all of its available cash to repay these borrowings or prevent US Oncology from making debt service payments on its other indebtedness, any of which would result in an event of default under those notes. In addition, any default under the senior secured credit facility or other indebtedness would (unless the default is waived) prevent US Oncology from paying dividends to Holdings to enable Holdings to service its obligations under the US Oncology Holdings, Inc. Senior Floating Rate Notes (the “Holdings Notes”). In addition, future indebtedness could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our existing indebtedness. 26 Index to Financial Statements We may not be able to fulfill our repurchase obligations in the event of a change of control. Upon the occurrence of any change of control, we will be required to make a change of control offer to repurchase a substantial portion of our indebtedness. Any change of control also would constitute a default under the senior secured credit facility. Therefore, upon the occurrence of a change of control, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility will have the right to accelerate their loans and require US Oncology to prepay all of the outstanding obligations under the senior secured credit facility. Also, the senior secured credit facility will prohibit US Oncology from making dividend payments to Holdings to enable Holdings to repurchase the Holdings Notes upon a change in control, unless US Oncology first repays all borrowings under the senior secured credit facility or obtains the consent of the lenders under the senior secured credit facility. If a change of control occurs, there can be no assurance that US Oncology will have available funds sufficient to repay all borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, to repurchase all existing notes of US Oncology and to make dividend payments to Holdings to enable it to pay the change of control purchase price for any or all of the Holdings Notes that might be delivered by holders of the Holdings Notes seeking to accept the change of control offer. Accordingly, none of the holders of our outstanding notes may receive the change of control purchase price for their notes. Our failure to make the change of control offer or pay the change of control purchase price when due would result in a default under the indentures our notes. Our parent’s principal stockholder’s interests may conflict with the interests of other stakeholders in the Company. An investor group led by Welsh Carson IX owns all of our parent’s outstanding equity securities. Welsh Carson IX controls substantially all of the voting power of such outstanding equity securities. Welsh Carson IX’s interests in exercising control over our business may conflict with the interests of other holders of the Company’s debt and equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 