Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In general, because our revenues depend upon earnings of our affiliated practices, any risks that harm the economic performance of the affiliated practices will, in turn, harm us. Risks Relating to Our Industry Continued efforts by commercial payers to reduce reimbursement levels, change reimbursement methodologies or control the way in which services are provided could adversely affect us. Commercial payers continue to seek to negotiate lower levels of reimbursement for cancer care services, with a particular focus on reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. A disproportionate majority of affiliated practices’ profitability is attributable to reimbursement from commercial payers. There is a risk that commercial payers will seek reductions in pharmaceutical reimbursement similar to those included in the recent federal legislation discussed below. Any reductions in reimbursement levels could harm us and our affiliated physicians. In addition, several payers are trying to implement Mandatory Vendor Imposition (“MVI”) programs under which cancer patients or their oncologists would be required to obtain pharmaceuticals from a third-party. That third-party, rather than the oncologist, would then be reimbursed. Private payers have the ability to implement such programs through benefit designs that offer patients significant incentives to receive drugs in this fashion as well as through negotiations with practices. As described below, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) was required to implement a program under which oncologists may elect to receive drugs from a Medicare contractor, rather than purchase drugs and seek reimbursement. If such a program is successfully implemented for Medicare, private payers may follow. Commercial payers are also attempting to reduce reimbursement for other services, such as diagnostic imaging tests, by requiring that such tests be performed by specific 16 Index to Financial Statements providers within a given market or otherwise limiting the circumstances under which they will provide reimbursement for those services. In the event that payers succeed with these initiatives, our practices’ and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in Medicare reimbursement may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Government organizations, such as Medicare and Medicaid (“Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services” or “CMS”), are the largest payers for our collective group of affiliated practices. As such, changes in Medicare reimbursement practices have been initiated over the past several years, and which are continuing into 2007, may adversely affect our results of operations. Several changes which have and may continue to adversely affect the company include: • Change in Medicare reimbursement methodology based on average wholesale price (“AWP”) to average sales price (“ASP”) for oncology pharmaceuticals administered in physicians’ offices effective January 1, 2005 and its potential impact on differential pricing offered on pharmaceuticals; • Possible elimination or reduction for data reimbursement under the Medicare Demonstration Project; • Implementation of the Competitive Acquisition Program (“CAP”) which began August 1, 2006 should any affiliated practices elect to participate in this program; • CMS changes to the Practice Expense (“PE”) Methodology for non-drug services reimbursement to be phased in from 2007 to 2010; • Capping of Medicare imaging reimbursement at the lower or Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“HOPPS”) rates or Physician Fee Schedule (“PFS”) National Payment Amounts under the Deficit Reduction Act (“DRA”) The reductions in Medicare reimbursement may also cause some oncologists to cease providing care in the physician office setting either by retiring from the practice of medicine, by moving to a hospital setting or choosing to obtain drugs through CAP. Any such reductions in our affiliated practices would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any reduction in the overall size of the outpatient oncology market could adversely affect our prospects for growth and business development. We believe that the increasing national budget deficit, aging population and newly enacted prescription drug benefit will mean that pressure to reduce healthcare costs, and drug costs in particular, will continue to intensify. For a more complete description of the Medicare reimbursement changes and their impact to the company, see Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Reimbursement Matters.” Continued review of pharmaceutical companies and their pricing and marketing practices could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals and adversely affect us. Continued review of pharmaceutical companies by government payers could result in lowered reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, which could harm us. Recent federal legislation mentioned above may reduce governmental scrutiny of AWP, which has been a focus of several investigations by government agencies, since Medicare reimbursement is no longer based on AWP. However, many state Medicaid programs continue to reimburse for drugs on an AWP-based model. Moreover, existing and prior lawsuits and investigations have resulted and could continue to result in significant settlements that include corporate integrity agreements affecting pharmaceutical manufacturer behavior. Corporate integrity agreements subject a healthcare provider, including pharmaceutical manufacturers, to burdensome and costly monitoring and reporting requirements to the Office of Inspector General of the HHS. Additionally, many of the concerns of government agencies will continue to apply under any model. Because our network is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals, the other services we provide to, and relationships we have with pharmaceutical manufacturers, could be subject to scrutiny to the extent they are not viewed as bona fide arms length relationships or are inappropriately linked to pharmaceutical purchasing. Furthermore, possibly in response to such scrutiny as well as significant adverse coverage by the media, some pharmaceutical manufacturers could alter pricing or marketing strategies that increase the cost of pharmaceuticals to oncologists, which in turn could adversely affect us. Finally, because our network of affiliated practices participates in a group purchasing organization that is a significant purchaser of pharmaceuticals paid for by government programs, we or our network of 17 Index to Financial Statements affiliated practices have become involved in these investigations or lawsuits, and are the target of such pharmaceutical-related scrutiny. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. The new reimbursement methodology under Medicare could make it more difficult for us to obtain favorable pricing from pharmaceutical companies. Historically, one of our key business strengths has been our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that we believe is better than prices widely available in the marketplace. Starting January 1, 2005, Medicare began reimbursing for oncology pharmaceuticals based on 106% of the average price at which pharmaceutical companies sell those drugs to oncologists and other users, so that any discount to any purchaser would have the effect of reducing reimbursement for drugs administered in all physician offices. This may make pharmaceutical companies more reluctant to offer market-differentiated pricing to us or may cause them to reduce the degree of such differentiation. We believe that these trends are already present in the marketplace. In addition, the new reimbursement method may have other, unanticipated effects on pricing of pharmaceuticals. Any decrease in our ability to obtain pricing for pharmaceuticals that is more favorable than the market as a whole could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain new customers and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may directly or indirectly, reduce our revenues and harm our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Several areas of regulatory compliance that may affect our ability to conduct business include: • federal and state anti-kickback laws; • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, which is also referred to as the Stark Law; • federal and state false claims laws; • state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; • state laws regarding prohibitions on fee splitting; • federal and state laws regarding pharmacy regulations; • federal and state laws regarding pharmaceutical distribution; and • federal and state laws and regulations applicable to the privacy and security of certain health information and the use of electronic transactions and codes sets, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and implementing regulations. These federal and state laws and regulations are extremely complex. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. It also is possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement or perception that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our affiliated practices, hospitals and other healthcare providers with which we, or our affiliated practices, have entered into various arrangements are also heavily regulated. To the extent that our arrangements with these parties or their independent activities fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. For a more complete description of these regulations, see “Government Regulation.” 18 Index to Financial Statements We face the risk of governmental investigation and qui tam litigation relating to regulations governing billing for medical services. The federal government has become more aggressive in examining billing practices and seeking repayments and penalties allegedly resulting from improper billing and reimbursement practices. Federal and some state laws authorize private whistleblowers to bring false claim, or qui tam suits, on behalf of the government and reward the whistleblower with a portion of any final recovery. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in other such suits of which we are not aware. For the past several years, the number of qui tam suits filed against healthcare companies and the aggregate amount of recoveries under such suits have increased significantly. This trend increases the risk that we may become subject to additional qui tam lawsuits. Although we believe that our operations comply with applicable laws and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against allegations of wrongdoing, the costs of addressing such suits, as well as the amount of any recovery in the event of a finding of wrongdoing on our part, could be significant. The existence of qui tam litigation involving us may also strain our relationships with our affiliated physicians, particularly those physicians or practices named in such suits, or with our pharmaceutical suppliers. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We have existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, some of whom have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and managerial resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their services. These competitors may also undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees. We also expect our competitors to develop additional strategic relationships with providers, pharmaceutical companies and payers, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced services, acquisitions, industry consolidation and the development of additional strategic relationships by our competitors could cause price competition, a decline in revenue or a loss of market acceptance of our services, or make our services less attractive. Additionally, in developing cancer centers, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions unavailable to us. Such organizations may be willing to provide services at rates lower than we would require to operate profitably. With respect to research activities, the competitive landscape is fragmented, with competitors ranging from small limited-service providers to large full-service contract research organizations with global operations. Some of these large contract research organizations have access to more financial resources than we do. We expect that industry forces will have an impact on us and our competitors. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, limits in Medicare coverage and reimbursement levels, consolidation of healthcare service companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. The changes in our industry have caused greater competition among industry participants. Our inability to predict accurately, or react competitively to, changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Most of our revenues come from pharmaceuticals, and an adverse impact on the way in which pharmaceuticals are reimbursed or purchased by us would have an adverse impact on our business. During 2006, approximately 75% of the patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices was attributable to pharmaceuticals. Under the comprehensive services model, our revenues are dependent on the earnings of our affiliated practices. Because revenues attributable to pharmaceuticals and our ability to procure pharmaceuticals at competitive prices 19 Index to Financial Statements are such a significant part of the affiliated practices’ earnings and, consequently, our revenues, factors that adversely affect those revenues or the cost structure underlying those revenues are likely to adversely affect our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of pharmaceuticals manufactured and sold by a very limited number of suppliers and any termination or modification of relations with those suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and profitability from the utilization of pharmaceuticals manufactured and sold by a very limited number of manufacturers. During 2006, approximately 50% of patient revenue generated by our affiliated practices resulted from pharmaceuticals sold exclusively by five manufacturers. In addition, a limited number of manufacturers are responsible for a disproportionately large amount of market-differentiated pricing we offer to practices. Our agreements with these manufacturers are typically for one to three years and are cancelable by either party without cause with 30 days prior notice. Further, several of the agreements provide favorable pricing that is adjusted quarterly based on specified volume levels or a specified level of use of a specific drug as a percentage of overall use of drugs within a given therapeutic class. In some cases, compliance with the contract is measured on an annualized basis and pricing concessions are given in the form of rebates payable at the end of the measurement period. Unanticipated changes in usage patterns, including the introduction of standardized treatment regimens or clinical pathways that disfavor a given drug, could result in lower-than-anticipated utilization of a given pharmaceutical product, and cause us to fail to attain the performance levels required to earn rebates. A departure of a significant number of physicians from our network could also cause us to fail to reach contract targets. Failure to attain performance levels could result in our not earning rebates, including cost-reductions that may already have been reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, certain manufacturers pay rebates under multi-product agreements. Under these types of agreements, our pricing on several products could be adversely impacted based upon our failure to meet predetermined targets with respect to any single product. Any termination or adverse adjustment to these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to negotiate the purchase of pharmaceuticals on behalf of our network of affiliated physicians, or to expand the scope of pharmaceuticals purchased, from a particular supplier at prices below those generally offered to all oncologists is largely dependent upon such supplier’s assessment of the value of our network. Many pharmaceuticals used by our affiliated physicians are single-sourced drugs and available from only one manufacturer. To the extent that our pharmaceutical services structure or other factors cause pharmaceutical suppliers to perceive our network as less valuable, our relationships and any pricing advantages with such suppliers could be harmed. Our inability to negotiate prices of pharmaceuticals with any of our significant suppliers at prices below those generally available to all oncologists could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice’s Civil Litigation Division (“DOJ”) requesting a broad range of information about us and our business, generally in relation to our contracts and relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers. We are in the process of responding to the subpoena and intend to cooperate fully with the DOJ. At the present time, the DOJ has not made any specific allegation of wrongdoing on the part of the Company. However, we cannot provide assurance that such an allegation or litigation will not result from this investigation. While we believe that we are operating and have operated our business in compliance with law, including with respect to the matters covered by the subpoena, we cannot provide assurance that the DOJ will not make a determination that wrongdoing has occurred. In addition, we are devoting significant resources to responding to the DOJ subpoena and anticipate that such resources will be required on an ongoing basis to fully respond to the subpoena. If our affiliated practices terminate their agreements with us, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices under certain circumstances are allowed, and may attempt, to terminate their agreements with us. If any of our larger practices were to succeed in such a termination, other than in connection with a transition to our OPS structure, our business could be seriously harmed. From time to time, we have disputes with physicians and practices that could result in harmful changes to our relationship with them or a termination of a service agreement if adversely determined. We are also aware that some practices that are not part of our network but which are affiliated with other companies, have attempted to end or restructure their affiliations with such companies, although they may not have a contractual right to do so, by arguing that their affiliations violate some aspect of healthcare law and have been successful in doing so. Specifically, we are involved in litigation with one net revenue model practice of 35 physicians (which disaffiliated with the Company in April, 2006). We initiated arbitration proceedings pursuant to a provision in the service agreement providing for contract reformation in certain events. The practice countered with a lawsuit that alleges, among other things, 20 Index to Financial Statements that we have breached the service agreement and that our service agreement is unenforceable as a matter of public policy due to alleged violations of healthcare laws. The practice sought unspecified damages and a termination of the contract. We believe that our service agreement is lawful and enforceable and that we are operating in accordance with applicable law. As a result of alleged breaches of the service agreement by the practice, we terminated the service agreement in April, 2006. During the first quarter of 2006, the practice represented 4.6% of our consolidated revenue. In October, 2006, we sold the property, plant and equipment to the practice for cash, at an amount that approximated its net book value at the time of sale. In connection with the purchase price allocation for the merger in August, 2004, no value was assigned to goodwill or our management service agreement with this practice due to the ongoing dispute that existed at that time. As a result of the ongoing litigation, we have been unable to collect on a timely basis a receivable owed to us relating to accounts receivable purchased by us under the service agreement and amounts for reimbursement of expenses paid by us on the practice’s behalf. At December 31, 2006, the total receivable owed to us of $22.3 million is reflected on our balance sheet as other assets. Currently, certain amounts are held in an escrowed bank account into which the practice has been making, and is required to continue to make, monthly deposits. These amounts will be released upon resolution of the litigation. In addition, certain amounts are being held in a bank account that has been frozen pending the outcome of related litigation regarding that account. In addition, we have filed a security lien on the receivables of the practice. We believe that the amounts held in the bank accounts combined with the receivables of the practice in which we have filed a security lien represent adequate collateral to recover the $22.3 million receivable recorded as other assets at December 31, 2006. Accordingly, we expect to realize the amount that we believe to be owed by the practice. However, realization is subject to a successful conclusion to the litigation with the practice, and we cannot assure you as to when the litigation will be finally concluded or as to what the ultimate outcome of the litigation will be. We expect to incur expenses in connection with our litigation with the practice In addition to loss (if any) of revenue from a particular practice, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If some of our affiliated physicians or affiliated practices terminate their affiliation with us, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If a significant number of physicians leave our affiliated practices, we could be seriously harmed. Our affiliated practices usually enter into employment or non-competition agreements with their physicians that provide some assurance to both the practice and to us with respect to continuing affiliation. We and our affiliated practices seek to maintain and renew such contracts once they expire. We cannot predict whether a court will enforce the non-competition covenants in these agreements. If practices are unable to enforce these non-competition provisions or otherwise enforce these employment agreements, physicians may leave our network and compete with our affiliated practices. In addition, physicians leave our network from time to time as a result of retirement, disability or death. In addition to loss of revenue from departing physicians, a departure of a large number of physicians from our network could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for goods and services and other economies of scale that are based upon the size of our network. If a significant number of physicians terminated relationships with our affiliated practices, our business could be seriously harmed. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. We rely on the ability of our affiliated practices to grow and expand. Our affiliated practices may encounter difficulties attracting additional physicians and expanding their operations or may choose not to do so. The failure of practices to expand their patient base and increase revenues could harm us. Our affiliated practices may be unsuccessful in obtaining favorable contracts with third-party payers, which could result in lower operating margins. We facilitate negotiation of commercial payer contracts and advise our affiliated physicians accordingly under our comprehensive services model. Commercial payers, such as managed care organizations, often request fee structures or alternative reimbursement methodologies that could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated physicians and therefore, on our operating results. Reductions in reimbursement rates for services offered by our affiliated physicians and other commercial payer cost containment measures could affect our liquidity and results of operations with respect to our comprehensive service agreements. 21 Index to Financial Statements We may encounter difficulties in managing our network of affiliated practices. We do not control the practice of medicine by the physicians or their compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to the practices. At the same time, an affiliated practice may have difficulty in effectively governing the practices of its individual physicians. In addition, we have only limited control over the business decisions of the practices even under the comprehensive services model. As a result, it is difficult to implement standardized practices across the network, and this could have an adverse effect on cost controls, regulatory compliance, business strategy, our profitability and the strength of our network. Loss of revenues or a decrease in income of our affiliated practices, including as a result of cost containment efforts by third-party payers, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenue currently depends on revenue generated by affiliated practices. Loss of revenue by the practices could seriously harm us. It is possible that our affiliated practices will not be able to maintain successful medical practices. In addition, our fees under comprehensive service agreements depend upon the profitability of the practices. Any failure by the practices to contain costs effectively will adversely impact our results of operations. Because we do not control the manner in which our practices conduct their medical practice (including drug utilization), our ability to control costs related to the provision of medical care is limited. Furthermore, the affiliated practices face competition from several sources, including sole practitioners, single and multi-specialty practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. We have limited ability to discontinue or alter our service arrangements with practices, even where continuing to manage such practices under existing arrangements is economically detrimental to us. Physician practices typically bill third-party payers for the healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payers such as private insurance plans and commercial managed care plans negotiate the prices charged for medical services and supplies in order to lower the cost of the healthcare services and products they pay for and to shift the financial risk of providing care to healthcare providers. Third-party payers can also deny reimbursement for medical services and supplies by concluding that they believe a treatment was not appropriate, and these reimbursement denials are difficult to appeal or reverse. Third-party payers are also seeking to contain costs by moving certain services, particularly pharmaceutical services, outside of the physician’s office. We believe that self-injectable supportive care drugs used by oncologists, which account for approximately 37% of the pharmaceutical revenue generated by our affiliated practices, are particularly susceptible to this trend. Our affiliated practices also derive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental programs. Reimbursement by governmental programs generally is not subject to negotiation and is established by governmental regulation. There is a risk that other payers could reduce rates of reimbursement to match any reduction by governmental payers. Our management fees under the comprehensive services model are dependent on the financial performance of the practices and would be adversely affected by a reduction in reimbursement. From time to time, due to market conditions and other factors, we may also renegotiate our management fee arrangements, reducing our management fee income. In addition, to the extent oncologists that are our customers under the OPS model are impacted adversely by reduced reimbursement levels, our business could be harmed generally. The development or operation of cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs, and our existing or future centers may not be profitable. The development and operation of integrated cancer centers is subject to a number of risks, including not obtaining regulatory permits or approval, delays that often accompany construction of facilities and environmental liabilities related to the disposal of radioactive, chemical and medical waste. Our strategy includes the development of additional integrated cancer centers. We have four cancer centers under construction, and several others in various planning stages. Any failure or delay in successfully building new integrated cancer centers, as well as liabilities from ongoing operations, could seriously harm us. New cancer centers may incur significant operating losses during their initial operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in some cases our cancer centers may not be profitable enough for us to recover our investment. We may decide to close or sell cancer centers, either because of underperformance or other market developments. 22 Index to Financial Statements Insourcing of our oncology pharmacy distribution business is subject to daily operational risk and requires significant investment in capital. During 2005, we implemented an oncology pharmaceutical distribution function to serve our network of affiliated practices. The insourcing of distribution poses new operating risks, including the investment in infrastructure, inventory and personnel, and managing an efficient distribution function. The cost to build out the 75,000 square foot facility in Fort Worth, Texas was approximately $12.1 million. The distribution center began supplying a limited number of pharmaceuticals to our affiliated practices during the third quarter of 2005, and we believe it has now achieved normal operating levels as it currently serves all affiliated practice sites and provides over 90% of the value of pharmaceuticals administered by our affiliated practices. The initial working capital investment of approximately $113.0 million for the distribution center was made primarily during the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. The distribution center provided a platform to further expand our services related to oncology pharmaceuticals with the launch of our oral oncology specialty pharmacy and mail order business in August, 2006. Additionally, becoming a distributor subjects us to additional licensing and regulatory requirements. Disruptions in distribution as a result of these requirements could adversely impact the financial performance of our affiliated practices and our relations with them, and could adversely impact our ability to recover our investment in our oncology pharmaceutical distribution business or adversely impact our financial condition. Our centralized business operations, particularly our distribution operation, may be adversely affected by business interruptions resulting from events that are beyond our control. Our centralized business operations, particularly our distribution operation, may be adversely affected by business interruptions resulting from events that are beyond our control. We have only one pharmaceutical distribution facility, which is located in Fort Worth, Texas. In addition, certain of our other business functions are centralized at our headquarters in Houston, Texas. A significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities, whether as a result of natural disaster or other unexpected damage from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-in, terrorist attacks, acts of war and other events, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business and adversely impact our and our affiliated practices’ operations. If we seek to replicate our centralized operations at other locations, we will face a number of technical as well as financial challenges, which we may not be able to address successfully. In particular, with respect to distribution, although we and our affiliated practices would be able to obtain pharmaceuticals from other sources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a price that is comparable or in as efficient a manner as through our own distribution operation. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical staff and other key personnel, and we may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel to meet our hiring needs. Our ability to offer and maintain high quality service is dependent upon our ability to attract and maintain arrangements with qualified professional and technical staff and with executives on our management team. Clinical staffs at affiliated practices are practice employees, but we assist in recruiting them. There is a high level of competition for such skilled personnel among healthcare providers, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations, and there is a nationwide shortage in many specialties, including oncology nursing and technical radiation staff. In addition, recently there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of physician recruitment activities by hospitals, and there can be no assurance that this will not adversely affect our recruitment of qualified personnel. We cannot assure that we or our affiliated practices will be able to hire sufficient numbers of qualified personnel or that employment arrangements with such staff can be maintained on terms advantageous to our affiliated practices or us. In addition, if one or more members of our management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we could be harmed. Our failure to remain technologically competitive in a declining payment environment for imaging and radiation services could adversely affect our business. Rapid technological advancements have been made in the radiation oncology and diagnostic imaging industry. Although we believe that our equipment and software can generally be upgraded as necessary, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing technologies might make existing equipment technologically obsolete. If such obsolescence were to occur, then we may be compelled to incur significant costs to replace or modify the equipment, which 23 Index to Financial Statements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our cancer centers compete against local centers, which may contain more advanced imaging or radiation therapy equipment or provide additional technologies. Our performance is dependent upon physician and patient confidence in the quality of our technology and equipment as compared to that of our competitors. Advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery and immunotherapy, or in cancer prevention techniques could reduce demand for the radiation therapy services provided at the cancer centers we operate. The development and commercialization of new radiation therapy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our affiliated practices and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our working capital could be impacted by delays in reimbursement for services. The healthcare industry is characterized by delays that can be as much as three to six months between when services are provided and when the reimbursement or payment for these services is received. Under our comprehensive service agreements, our working capital is dependent on such collections. Although we believe our collection experience is generally consistent with that of the industry, industry reimbursement practices make working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot provide assurance that trends in the industry will not further extend the collection period and negatively impact our working capital. Our services could give rise to liability to clinical trial participants and the parties with whom we contract. In connection with clinical research programs, we provide several services focused on bringing new drugs to market, which is time consuming and expensive. Such clinical research involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. Clinical research involves the inherent risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the new drugs by physicians. In certain cases, these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. In addition, under the privacy regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA, there are specific privacy standards associated with clinical trial agreements. Violations of such standards could subject us to an enforcement action by HHS. If we do not perform our services to contractual or regulatory standards, the clinical trial process and the participants in such trials could be adversely affected. These events would create a risk of liability to us from either the pharmaceutical companies with which we contract or the study participants. We also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Third parties could claim that we should be held liable for losses arising from any professional malpractice of the investigators with whom we contract or in the event of personal injury to or death of persons for the medical care rendered by third-party investigators. Although we would vigorously defend any such claims, it is possible that we could be held liable for such types of losses. We could be subject to malpractice claims and other harmful lawsuits not covered by insurance. In the past, we have been named in suits related to medical services provided by our affiliated physicians. We cannot provide assurance that claims relating to services delivered by a network physician will not be brought against us in the future. In addition, because affiliated physicians prescribe and dispense pharmaceuticals and we operate pharmacies and participate in the drug procurement and distribution process, we and our affiliated physicians could be subject to product liability claims. Although we maintain malpractice insurance, there can be no assurance that it will be adequate in the event of a judgment against us. There can be no assurance that any claim asserted against us for professional liability will not be successful. The availability and cost of professional liability insurance varies widely from state to state and is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek or at prices we are prepared to pay. 24 Index to Financial Statements Under OPS, our agreements with affiliated practices have shorter terms than our comprehensive services agreements, and we have less input with respect to the business operations of the practices. Currently, most of our revenues are derived from providing comprehensive management services to practices under long-term agreements that generally have 25 to 40 year initial terms and that are not terminable except under specified circumstances. Agreements under our comprehensive services model allow us to be the exclusive provider of management services, including all services contemplated under the OPS structure, to each of the affiliated practices. In addition, under those agreements, the affiliated practices are required to bind their physicians to specified employment terms or restrictive covenants. Under the OPS structure, our agreements with affiliated practices have shorter terms, and are more easily terminable. A number of the other input mechanisms that we currently have with respect to affiliated comprehensive services practices do not exist under our oncology pharmaceutical services model. This may increase the ability of affiliated practices to change their internal composition to our detriment and may result in arrangements that are easier for individual physicians and practices to exit, exposing us to increased competition from other companies, especially in the pharmacy services sector. Departure of a significant number of physicians or practices from participation in our OPS structure could harm us. These risks will increase if we successfully grow our business under the OPS structure. Risks Relating to our Capitalization Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our current and future operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had indebtedness of approximately $1,329.1 million, including indebtedness of US Oncology Holdings, Inc in the amount of $250 million and obligations of US Oncology, Inc. in the amount of $1,079.1 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial condition and making it more difficult to satisfy obligations, make strategic investments, increase our service offerings or expand our network of affiliated practices. Our substantial indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the indentures governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on debt obligations including distributions of sufficient funds from US Oncology to Holdings to enable Holdings to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to allow Holdings to pay its obligations under its notes or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets subject to restrictions in our debt agreements, 25 Index to Financial Statements reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot provide assurance that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Our secured credit facility and the indentures governing other indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. Our senior secured credit facility includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • create liens; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make capital expenditures; • change our business; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. The indentures for our other indebtedness also contain numerous operating and financial covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including a limitation on the amount of these payments; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. Our senior secured credit facility also includes financial covenants, including requirements that US Oncology maintain: 26 Index to Financial Statements • a minimum interest coverage ratio; and • a maximum leverage ratio. These financial covenants will become more restrictive over time. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the senior secured credit facility or the indentures could result in an event of default. In the event of any default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, enforce their security interest, require US Oncology to apply all of its available cash to repay these borrowings or prevent US Oncology from making debt service payments on its other indebtedness, any of which would result in an event of default under those notes. In addition, any default under the senior secured credit facility or other indebtedness would (unless the default is waived) prevent US Oncology from paying dividends to Holdings to enable Holdings to service its obligations under the US Oncology Holdings, Inc. Senior Floating Rate Notes (the “Holdings Notes”). In addition, future indebtedness could contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to our existing indebtedness. Holdings is the sole obligor under the Holdings Notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries, including US Oncology, do not guarantee obligations under the Holdings Notes and do not have any obligation with respect to the notes; the notes are effectively subordinated to Holdings’ future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations of Holdings’ subsidiaries, including US Oncology. Holdings is a holding company and therefore depends on its subsidiaries to service its obligations under the notes and its other indebtedness. Holdings’ ability to repay the notes depends upon the performance of its subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions. Holdings has no operations of its own and derives all of its revenues and cash flow from its subsidiaries. None of Holdings’ subsidiaries guarantee the Holdings Notes. Holdings’ subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under the Holdings Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments, and the consequent rights of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ assets will be structurally subordinated to the claims of any subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of those securities. As a result, the Holdings Notes are structurally subordinated to the prior payment of all of the debts (including trade payables) of Holdings’ subsidiaries. Holdings’ subsidiaries have a significant amount of indebtedness. Total consolidated liabilities of the Company, as of December 31, 2006, were $2,006.8 million, of which $1,079.1 million constituted US Oncology indebtedness, most of which will mature prior to the Holdings Notes. In addition, at February 22, 2007, US Oncology could increase its liabilities by borrowing up to an additional $136.7 million under its revolving credit facility. Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, including under the senior secured credit facility. Holdings depends on its subsidiaries, who conduct the operations of the business, for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on the Holdings Notes. However, none of Holdings’ subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to it for payment on the Holdings Notes. The terms of US Oncology’s indebtedness restrict US Oncology and certain of its subsidiaries from, in each case, paying dividends or otherwise transferring its assets to Holdings. Such restrictions include, among others, financial covenants, prohibition of dividends in the event of default and limitations on the total amount of dividends. In addition, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing other current and future indebtedness, as well as financial condition and operating requirements of Holdings’ subsidiaries, currently limit and may, in the future, limit Holdings’ ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of Holdings’ subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Holdings to make payments in respect of the Holdings Notes when such payments are due. In addition, even if such earnings were sufficient, we can not provide assurance that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of Holdings’ subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide Holdings with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund interest and principal payments on the Holdings Notes when due. 27 Index to Financial Statements We may not be able to fulfill our repurchase obligations in the event of a change of control. Upon the occurrence of any change of control, we will be required to make a change of control offer to repurchase a substantial portion of our indebtedness. Any change of control also would constitute a default under the senior secured credit facility. Therefore, upon the occurrence of a change of control, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility will have the right to accelerate their loans and require US Oncology to prepay all of the outstanding obligations under the senior secured credit facility. Also, the senior secured credit facility will prohibit US Oncology from making dividend payments to Holdings to enable Holdings to repurchase the Holdings Notes upon a change in control, unless US Oncology first repays all borrowings under the senior secured credit facility or obtains the consent of the lenders under the senior secured credit facility. If a change of control occurs, there can be no assurance that US Oncology will have available funds sufficient to repay all borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, to repurchase all existing notes of US Oncology and to make dividend payments to Holdings to enable it to pay the change of control purchase price for any or all of the Holdings Notes that might be delivered by holders of the Holdings Notes seeking to accept the change of control offer. Accordingly, none of the holders of our outstanding notes may receive the change of control purchase price for their notes. Our failure to make the change of control offer or pay the change of control purchase price when due would result in a default under the indentures our notes. Our principal stockholder’s interests may conflict with the interests of other stakeholders in the Company. An investor group led by Welsh Carson IX owns approximately 65 percent of Holdings’ outstanding equity securities and controls a substantial portion of the voting power of such outstanding equity securities. Welsh Carson IX’s interests in exercising control over our business may conflict with the interests of other holders of our debt and equity securities. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our cost of financing or ability to obtain financing. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning as early as the time of filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Effective with the year ending December 31, 2008, such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. We have begun the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or it is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our cost of financing or our ability to obtain financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 