ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business has a limited operating history, which limits the availability of information to evaluate the business. We commenced our professional staffing and workforce solutions business in June 2005. As a result, shareholders and prospective investors will have limited operating and financial information to evaluate our historical performance and future prospects. We face the risks and difficulties of an early-stage company, including uncertainties of market acceptance, competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to execute our acquisitions or investments, our business could suffer. We have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions and may do so in the future through acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions and investments pose many risks, including: ● We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; ● Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional common stock, spend significant cash amounts or decrease our operating income; ● We may have trouble integrating the acquired business and retaining its personnel; ● Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt business and distract management from other responsibilities; and ● If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. ● Completing such acquisitions will be limited by our ability to negotiate purchase terms and/or obtain third party financing on terms acceptable to us, given our current working capital deficit, as discussed below, and our current inability to finance such acquisitions through current cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such acceptable purchase terms or third party financing. We may acquire additional companies, which may result in adverse effects on our earnings. We may at times become involved in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. Any acquisition that we may consummate may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, shareholders may experience dilution in their equity. We previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No.141, Business Combinations (SFAS No.141) and No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) implemented in June 2001, we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. Our management may be unable to effectively integrate acquisitions and to manage growth, and may be unable to fully realize any anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Our business strategy includes growth through both acquisitions and internal development. We are subject to various risks associated with our growth strategy, including the risk that we will be unable to identify and recruit suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to integrate and manage the acquired companies. Acquired companies’ histories, geographical locations, business models and business cultures can be different from ours in many respects. Senior management may face significant challenges in our efforts to integrate our businesses and the business of the acquired companies or assets, and to effectively manage continued growth. There can be no assurance that efforts to integrate the operations of any acquired assets or companies acquired in the future will be successful, that we can manage its growth or that the anticipated benefits of these proposed acquisitions will be fully realized. The dedication of management resources to these efforts may detract attention from day-to-day business. There can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with these activities or of the success of the integration efforts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 4 We may be subject to successor liability as a result of acquisitions we have made. The growth of our business has been partially a result of acquisitions we made in fiscal 2006 and 2007, including our acquisition of three general staffing offices from Stratus Services Group, Inc., five general staffing offices from U.S. Temp Services, Inc. and three general staffing offices of ReStaff Services, Inc. Although we have endeavored to structure these transactions to minimize exposure to unassumed liabilities, it is possible that under common law and certain statutes that creditors of the entities that sold us these operations could attempt to assert that we have successor liability for obligations of the sellers. Even if any such claim was unsuccessful, it could be costly to defend and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ultimate liability for unremitted payroll taxes may materially exceed our currently recorded estimated liability. We have been notified by the IRS and certain state taxing authorities that a subsidiary which ceased operating at the end of 2004 has accumulated liabilities for unremitted payroll taxes related to the calendar year 2004. Consequently we have recorded a liability of $700,000 representing the amount management believes will ultimately be payable for this liability based upon our knowledge of current events and circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that future events and circumstances will not result in an ultimate liability, including penalties and interest, materially in excess of our current estimate. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the nature of our business of placing workers in the workplace of other businesses on a temporary or permanent basis we are subject to a large number of laws and regulations relating to employment. The risks related to engaging in such business include but are not limited to: ● claims of discrimination and harassment, ● violations of wage and hour laws, ● criminal activity, ● claims relating to actions by customers including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets, and ● immigration related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management, and therefore, could have a negative effect on our business. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities or that we will be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not experience these issues in the future or that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Should our arrangement with Tri-State terminate we cannot be assured that we would be able to secure a comparable employee leasing provider or workers compensation insurance on affordable terms. We lease the majority of our workers from Tri-State Employment Services, Inc., a professional employment organization and major shareholder of our company. We lease employees in order to mitigate certain insurance risks and obtain greater employee benefits at more advantages rates via Tri-State’s much larger scale. Through this agreement with Tri-State, Tri-State is the statutory employer, whereas we are responsible for the hiring, termination, compensation structure, management, supervision and otherwise overall performance and day to day duties of all employees. Employees are leased from Tri-State based upon agreed upon rates which are dependent upon the individual employee’s compensation structure, as agreed to between us and the employee. Should our arrangement with Tri-State terminate we cannot be assured that we would be able to secure a comparable leasing provider at agreeable rates. Should we be unsuccessful at finding a comparable employee leasing provider we cannot be assured that we would be able to secure required workers compensation insurance on affordable terms. The failure to obtain a comparable employee leasing provider or workers compensation insurance at affordable rates would possibly require significant working capital requirements which are not currently necessary. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful at passing these increased costs to our clients which may reduce our profit margins. 5 We bear the risk of nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients. To the extent that any particular client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we are obligated to pay the agreed upon fees to our employees leasing provider Tri-State, whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. A significant increase in uncollected account receivables may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Our failure to remain competitive could harm our business. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any significant economic downturn could result in our customers using fewer staffing and consulting services, which could materially adversely affect our business. Demand for staffing and consulting services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity. As economic activity slows, many customers reduce their utilization of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular full-time employees. Further, demand for permanent placement services also slows as the labor pool directly available to our customers increases, making it easier for them to identify new employees directly. Typically, we may experience increased pricing pressures from competitors during periods of economic downturn, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, in geographic areas where we derive a significant amount of business, a regional or localized economic downturn could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. The loss of any key personnel could harm our business. Our future financial performance is significantly impacted by our ability to attract, motivate and retain key management personnel. Competition for qualified management personnel is very competitive and in the event that we experience turnover in senior management positions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit suitable replacements on a timely basis. We must also successfully integrate all new management and other key positions within our organization to achieve our operating objectives. Even if we are successful, turnover in key management positions could temporarily harm financial performance and results of operations until the new management becomes familiar with our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent personnel. Our success depends on our ability to provide clients with highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. Such individuals are in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers. There can be no assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time could materially adversely affect our business. Operating as a public company has increased costs, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a result of operating as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a non-reporting company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, our management expects these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and our management may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, board committees or as executive officers. 6 In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, beginning with our Annual Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, we expect to be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Further, we expect that our external auditors will be required to audit our internal control over financial reporting report and include their attestation on that report in our annual report on Form 10-K starting with the annual report for the 2010 fiscal year. The process of fully documenting and testing internal control procedures in order to satisfy these requirements will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may shift management time and attention from profit-generating activities to compliance activities. Furthermore, during the course of our internal control testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the reporting deadline under Section 404. In order to respond to additional regulations applicable to public companies, such as Section 404, our management anticipates hiring additional finance and accounting personnel in the future. Some of these positions require candidates with public company experience, and we may be unable to locate and hire such individuals as quickly as needed, if at all. In addition, new employees will require time and training to learn a new business and operating processes and procedures. If the finance and accounting organization is unable for any reason to respond adequately to the increased demands that will result from being a public company, the quality and timeliness of financial reporting may suffer, which could result in identification of internal control weaknesses. Any consequences resulting from inaccuracies or delays in our reported financial statements could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock as well as an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASD, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our common stock is thinly traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we cannot give assurance that our common stock will become liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the NASDAQ National Market or NASDAQ Capital Market). We cannot give assurance that we will be able to meet the listing standards of any stock exchange, such as the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market, or that we will be able to maintain any such listing. Such exchanges require companies to meet certain initial listing criteria including certain minimum bid prices per share. We may not be able to achieve or maintain such minimum bid prices or may be required to affect a reverse stock split to achieve such minimum bid prices. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Until our common stock is listed on an exchange, we expect that it will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. In this venue, however, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We have significant working capital requirements and have historically been heavily reliant upon the issuance of debt, including debt from related parties, to meet these working capital requirements. Historically, we have experienced negative working capital balances and as of September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007 had negative working capital of ($2,196,000) and ($3,226,000), respectively. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses relating to employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. We finance our operations primarily through sales of our receivables to a financial institution, issuance of debt, including debt issued to related parties, and also through cash generated by operating activities. Under the terms of our receivable sale agreement the maximum amount of trade receivables that can be sold is $8,000,000, for which the purchaser advances 90% of the assigned receivables’ value upon sale, and 10% upon final collection. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, we may replenish these with new receivables. The risk we bear from bad debt losses on trade receivables sold is retained by us and receivables sold which become greater than 90 days old can be charged back to us by the purchaser. Any such increase in trade receivables older than 90 days and charged back would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on liquidity and financial condition. 7 As of September 30, 2008, we owed $458,000 under promissory notes that are past due or which are due upon demand, $258,000 of which is due to related parties. We have, in the past, been required to aggressively manage our cash to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements and to service debt. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible and working to generate cash from a variety of other sources. We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities. Any such increase or sustained negative cash flows would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. There is no assurance that we will generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to meet the funding needs of our business in the future due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the staffing and professional services industry and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would consider taking a variety of actions, including: attempting to reduce fixed costs (for example, reducing the size of our administrative work force), curtailing or reducing planned capital additions, raising additional equity, borrowing additional funds, refinancing existing indebtedness or taking other actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully take any of these actions, including adjusting expenses sufficiently or in a timely manner, or raising additional equity, increasing borrowings or completing refinancing on any terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Our inability to take these actions as and when necessary would materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We have historically been, and may continue to be, heavily reliant upon financing from related parties which presents potential conflicts of interest. We have historically obtained financing from related parties including major shareholders, directors and officers, in the form of both debt and equity securities issued to finance working capital growth and acquisitions. These related parties have the ability to exercise significant control over the financing decisions of the Company, which may present conflicts of interest regarding the choice of parties to obtain financing from, as well as the terms of financing instruments that we enter into with them, and as a result, no assurance can be given that the terms of financing transactions with related parties are or will be as favorable as those that could be obtained in arms-length negotiations with third parties. Stockholders may experience future dilution in ownership due to possible future equity issuances, the exercise of outstanding warrants, the conversion of existing convertible debt securities, and the conversion of existing debt to equity in connection with certain restructuring activities. As of September 30, 2008, we have outstanding convertible debt securities representing a maximum number of common shares issuable upon conversion of 541,000, and outstanding warrants to acquire 166,000 shares of common stock. We are also in negotiations to further reduce our debt through restructurings which may include further conversions of outstanding debt to equity, and are also in discussions to obtain further financing, which may include the issuance of additional equity. Additional issuances of common stock will subject our stockholders to dilution and reduce their percentage interest in our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 