ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is significantly affected by fluctuations in general economic conditions. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As economic activity slows, however, many companies reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. Significant swings in economic activity historically have had a disproportionate impact on staffing industry volumes. We may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings are generated by our business operations in the United States. Any significant economic downturn in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the highly competitive nature of and the low barriers of entry to the temporary staffing industry, we may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. We operate in the highly competitive temporary staffing industry, which has low barriers of entry. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, greater financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular industries or markets. We expect that the level of competition will remain high. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our existing business and future prospects. We have significant working capital requirements and have historically experienced negative working capital balances. If we experience such negative working capital balances in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and pay expenses relating to the employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. We finance our operations primarily through sales of our receivables to financial institutions with recourse, issuances of debt, including debt issued to related parties, and through cash generated by our operating activities. We have been required to aggressively manage working capital to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements and to service debt. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible, and seeking to generate cash from a variety of other sources. There is no assurance that we will generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to meet our working capital requirements and pay our debt as it becomes due in the future due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the staffing industry and other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would consider taking a variety of actions, including attempting to reduce fixed costs (for example, further reducing the size of our administrative work force), curtailing or reducing planned capital additions, raising additional equity, borrowing additional funds, refinancing existing indebtedness or taking other actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully take any of these actions, including adjusting expenses sufficiently or in a timely manner, or raising additional equity, increasing borrowings or completing a refinancing on any terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Our inability to take these actions as and when necessary would materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. 4 Table of Contents We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities, and we had negative working capital balances of $0.6 million and $9.9 million as of September 28, 2012 and September 30, 2011, respectively. During the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, a related party converted $12 million and $2.1 million of loans into 30,506,276 shares of our common stock which reduced the negative working capital balance. Any increase or sustained negative cash flows would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We are heavily reliant on accounts receivable sales agreements to fund working capital requirements and any termination of such agreements may adversely affect our business. We fund, in part, our working capital requirements with the proceeds from accounts receivable sales agreements. CRD, Insurance Overload, Diamond Staffing and TS Staffing are parties to accounts receivable sales agreements with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, an operating division of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo”), pursuant to which, a maximum amount of $67.5 million of accounts receivable can be sold to Wells Fargo. Accountabilities and ICG Inc. entered into similar trade accounts receivable sales agreements with Amerisource Funding, Inc. (“Amerisource”) on June 13, 2011 and October 18, 2011, respectively. The maximum borrowing amounts under the Accountabilities and ICG Inc. agreements with Amerisource is $7.5 million and $4.5 million, respectively, as of the date hereof. Under each of these facilities, subject to certain exceptions, we receive 90% of the assigned receivables’ value upon sale, and 10% upon final collection. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, we may replenish these with new receivables. The risk of bad debt losses on assigned accounts receivables is retained by us and receivables sold which become greater than 90 days old can be charged back to us by Wells Fargo or Amerisource. Any such increase in accounts receivables older than 90 days and charged back will decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our accounts receivable sales agreements with Wells Fargo and Amerisource may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events of default or at any time within their broad discretion. In addition, our majority shareholder and several of his affiliated entities guarantee our obligations under these accounts receivable sales agreements and may terminate such guarantees at any time, which would permit the termination of such agreements by Wells Fargo or Amerisource. In the event of any such termination, we may be unable to finance our operations, and our operations and working capital could be negatively impacted. In addition, we may be unable to secure alternative arrangements, or any such alternative arrangements may include terms and conditions less favorable to us than under our current accounts receivable sale agreements. Finding such alternative arrangements may be difficult given the current economic climate and the reduction in the number of entities willing to provide this type of financing. This could adversely affect our ability to secure sufficient working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses. In addition, as a result of a continuing guarantee by each of CRD, Insurance Overload, Diamond Staffing and ourselves, a default under one accounts receivable sales agreement by one of our operating subsidiaries could create financial difficulty for us and our non-defaulting operating subsidiaries. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill and long-lived assets could adversely affect our results of operations. We regularly monitor our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment indicators. In conducting our goodwill impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units to the related net book value. In conducting our impairment analysis of long-lived assets, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets to the related net book values. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings that could adversely affect our results of operations. On January 20, 2012, a sales executive from ICG Inc. and 14 other sales, administration and operations personnel resigned from our company and began operating a competing temporary placement firm. We expect that this departure will affect ICG Inc.’s light industrial business for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we revalued our goodwill and long-lived assets relating to ICG Inc. and recorded impairment charges for goodwill of $398,000 and intangible assets of $181,000 in the second fiscal quarter of the year ended September 28, 2012. We have historically been, and may continue to be, heavily reliant upon financing from related parties, which presents potential conflicts of interest that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have historically obtained financing from related parties, including major shareholders, directors and officers, in the form of debt, debt guarantees and issuances of equity securities, to finance working capital growth and acquisitions. These related parties have the ability to exercise significant control over our financing decisions, which may present conflicts of interest regarding the choice of parties from whom we obtain financing, as well as the terms of financing. No assurance can be given that the terms of financing 5 Table of Contents transactions with related parties are or will be as favorable as those that could be obtained in arms’ length negotiations with third parties. Our principal stockholder, whose affiliated entities are engaged in multiple transactions with us, beneficially owned, together with its affiliated entities and persons, approximately 91.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of the date hereof, 2012, and his interests may conflict with our interests and those of our other shareholders. Tri-State and its affiliated persons owned approximately 91.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of the date hereof. Tri-State companies are wholly-owned by Robert Cassera, a member of our Board. Transactions between us and Tri-State’s companies include TSE’s guarantee of our subsidiaries’ obligations under the accounts receivable agreements with Wells Fargo and Amerisource, the provision of professional employer services to our subsidiaries, and, in the past, the exchange of our indebtedness for shares of our common stock and the sales of Tri-Overload, Tri-Diamond and TS Staffing to us. The interests of Tri-State and its affiliated persons could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of such ownership, Tri-State and its affiliates persons have the ability to cause the election of all of the members of the Board, appoint new management and approve actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amending our certificate of incorporation and merging the Company with or into another entity or selling all or substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by Tri-State and its affiliated persons will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. In addition, certain employees of Tri-State hold management positions in our company, including John Messina, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, who is also compensated by TSE. We do not have any policies or procedures in places that address potential conflicts of interest arising from Mr. Messina’s employment with TSE and his management responsibilities with us because we do not believe that such a conflict is a material risk given that Tri-State and the Company are engaged in different businesses. Additionally, if Tri-State’s affiliated companies, including TSE, TS Employment, Inc. (“TS Employment”) and TSE-PEO, Inc. (“TSE-PEO”), were to cease providing us with professional employer services (which include payroll related administrative services), we may not be able to secure a comparable provider of such services at agreeable rates. Should we be unsuccessful at finding a comparable provider, we may not be able to secure required workers’ compensation insurance on affordable terms. The failure to obtain a comparable provider of workers’ compensation insurance at affordable rates would possibly require significant capital requirements that are not currently available to us. In addition, we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients, and this would reduce our profit margins. The performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute cash to our parent company may vary, negatively affecting our ability to service our debt at the parent company level or in other subsidiaries. Since we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, our cash flow and our consequent ability to service our debt depends in part upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to our parent company, or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to our parent company or to other subsidiaries. The remittance of such cash inflows and the making of such loans and advances by our subsidiaries may be subject to legal or contractual restrictions, depend upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and be subject to various business considerations, including the ability of such subsidiaries to remit such cash inflows or make such loans and advances in a manner that does not result in substantial tax liability or other costs. If we are unable to execute our acquisitions or investments strategy for growing our business, our competitiveness within the industry may suffer, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions, including the acquisitions of ICG Inc. in December 2010, the Tri-Diamond in January 2011 and the TS Staffing in November 2011, in addition to smaller acquisitions and purchases of customer lists. In the future, we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many risks, including: ● We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; ● We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; ● Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional shares of common stock or debt, spend significant cash amounts and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; 6 Table of Contents ● We may have trouble integrating acquired businesses and retaining its personnel, including in connection with our more recent acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; ● Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt business and distract management from its other responsibilities; and ● If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. Completing future acquisitions may be limited by our ability to negotiate purchase terms and/or obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, given our current working capital deficit, as discussed above, and our current inability to finance such acquisitions through current cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such acceptable purchase or financing terms. Acquisitions of additional companies could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause our shareholders to have their equity in the Company diluted. From time to time, we may evaluate or complete acquisitions to expand our service offerings, broaden our customer base or grow our geographic presence. The acquisition and subsequent integration of a business into our corporate structure could, among other things, divert management’s attention away from our existing operations, result in a loss of key personnel or customers of the acquired business or result in the assumption of the unknown liabilities of the acquired entity. If the acquisition of a business involves a significant cash expenditure, debt incurrence or integration expense, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, in the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership interest. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the nature of our business of placing workers in the workplace of other businesses on a temporary or permanent basis, we are subject to a large number of laws and regulations relating to employment. The risks related to engaging in such business include but are not limited to: ● claims of discrimination and harassment (including sexual harassment claims); ● wrongful termination or denial of employment; ● violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues; ● incorrect classification of employees, including independent contractors; ● violations of wage and hour laws; ● criminal activity; ● claims relating to actions by customers including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets; and ● immigration related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management and could have a materially negative effect on our business. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate, but our insurance may not be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities, and we may not be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Should some or all of these claims arise, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We may be subject to successor liability as a result of acquisitions we have made, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The growth of our business has been partially a result of acquisitions we have made. Although we have endeavored to structure these transactions to minimize exposure to unassumed liabilities, it is possible that under common law and certain statutes, creditors of the entities that sold us these operations could attempt to assert that we have successor liability for obligations of the sellers. Even if any such claim is asserted and is unsuccessful (which management believes would be the case), we could incur substantial fees, expenses and other costs in defending ourselves against it, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Improper disclosure of sensitive or private information could result in liability and damage our reputation. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about full-time and temporary employees. Additionally, our employees may have access or exposure to customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. We are dependent on the security provisions of vendors who have custodial control of our data. We have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that our security controls over personal and other data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability, additional compliance costs or damage to our reputation in the marketplace. Government regulations may significantly increase our costs, result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce our future earnings. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. The cost to comply, and any inability to comply, with government regulation could materially harm our business. Increased government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide. Future regulations may also require new or additional benefits be paid to our associates or require us to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services. Any future regulations may materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity because they may make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide employment services. In conducting our business, we are required to pay a number of payroll and related expenses, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and medical insurance, for our personnel. Unemployment insurance premiums paid by employers typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment. Workers’ compensation costs may increase in the future if states raise benefit levels and expand the amount of allowable claims. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, both of which were passed in 2010, require that we provide healthcare coverage to our temporary employees, and new healthcare requirements may further increase the costs associated with employing temporary workers. Although we may attempt to recover such costs through the rates we charge our customers, there is no assurance that we will be able to pass on all cost increases to our customers. We are dependent on workers' compensation insurance coverage at commercially reasonable terms; unexpected changes in claim trends on our workers’ compensation and benefit plans may negatively impact our financial condition. Although we are insured through TS Employment for workers’ compensation and medical benefit claims, our costs could be affected by unexpected changes in claim trends, which include the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation that could result in costs that are significantly higher. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in claims-related liabilities. The loss of our workers' compensation insurance coverage would prevent us from doing business in the majority of our markets. Further, we cannot be certain that TS Employment‘s current and former insurance carriers will be able to pay claims we make under such policies. We bear the risk of loss of major clients, nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy is focused on serving large corporate customers. While our strategy is intended to enable us to increase our revenues and earnings from our major corporate customers, the strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. If a large client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For work performed prior to the 8 Table of Contents termination of a client agreement, we are obligated to pay the agreed-upon fees to TS Employment and TSE-PEO for providing professional employment services (which include payroll services, administration of employee benefits, workers’ compensation insurance coverage and accounts receivable collection services) whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. Given the difficult economic environment, there is an increased risk of clients failing to pay or delaying payment, although we are not currently experiencing significant levels of these occurrences. A significant increase in uncollected accounts receivables or customer defaults would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we would have charge backs on existing accounts receivable and invoices on future sales of accounts receivable generated by such clients under our accounts receivable purchase agreements. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent personnel, the demand for our services could decrease, which in turn could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates, as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time, could materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to provide clients with highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. Such individuals are in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers and others. There can be no assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms. Additionally, we may not be able to develop training programs to respond to our clients’ changing needs or retain temporary and permanent personnel who we have trained. We are highly dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity; In the past, we experienced significant management turnover, which may result in operational inefficiencies that could negatively affect our business. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. Since Fiscal Year 2009 we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management. In Fiscal Year 2009, we experienced changes in our President and Chief Executive Officer positions. In Fiscal Year 2010, our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance resigned. In Fiscal Year 2011, we appointed a new Chief Financial Officer and President of Sales. In Fiscal Year 2012, our Chief Financial Officer was terminated and we appointed a successor. On October 8, 2012, our Chief Executive Officer resigned and our President assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer as well as Chairman of the Board. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term experience in their new roles within the Company, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, stock price and customer relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization or who join us through acquisitions in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. We may experience business interruptions that could have an adverse effect on our operations; Our management information systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, this could temporarily impact our ability to pay employees, bill customers, service customers, maintain billing and payroll records reliably and pay taxes, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses and financial condition. Our primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by our employees. Although we have disaster recovery plans and adequate levels of insurance in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion. A prolonged outage could seriously impact our ability to service customers or hire temporary workers and could seriously threaten the Company. Beginning on October 28, 2012, the New York Metropolitan Area was affected by Hurricane Sandy. Our headquarter offices at 160 Broadway New York, New York were inaccessible for five business days. We are in the process of assessing the financial impact of Hurricane Sandy to our staffing business and resultant loss of revenues as well as increased costs. We will also reassess our business continuity plan and infrastructure needs in the wake of Hurricane Sandy in our future strategic planning and disaster recovery evaluations which could result in additional capital investments. 9 Table of Contents Our customer contracts contain termination provisions that could decrease our future revenues and earnings. Most of our customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. Our customers are, therefore, not contractually obligated to continue to do business with us in the future. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. Stockholder ownership interest in our company may be diluted as a result of future financings or additional acquisitions. We may seek to raise funds from time to time in public or private issuances of equity and such financings may take place in the near future or over the longer term. Sales of our securities offered through future equity offerings may result in substantial dilution to the interests of our current shareholders. The sale of a substantial number of securities to investors, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. In addition, we have issued shares of our common stock for various acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future, which may also result in substantial dilution to the interests of our current shareholders. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could adversely affect our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could adversely affect our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our common stock. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In 2010, our management concluded that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which resulted from a lack of sufficient and effective supervisory review over the preparation and reconciliation of certain general ledger account balances to their underlying source documents at one of our subsidiaries. While we addressed this weakness during Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain effective controls in the future, especially if we continue to significantly grow our business by merger or acquisition. Our common stock is a thinly traded over-the-counter security that is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and may be subject to significant volatility. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Trading in stocks quoted on the OTCBB is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading price due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. Moreover, the OTCBB is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTCBB is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on stock exchanges. Accordingly, our shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of their shares. In addition, the stock market in general, and the OTCBB in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. This could result in losses to our shareholders. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We cannot give assurance that our common stock will become more liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. We may not be able to meet the listing standards of any stock exchange or be able to maintain any such listing. Such exchanges require companies to meet certain initial listing criteria, including certain minimum bid prices per share. We may not be able to achieve or maintain such minimum bid prices or may be required to effect a reverse stock split to achieve such minimum bid prices. Because our common stock is quoted on the OTCBB, an investor may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such common stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various 10 Table of Contents requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and for investors to dispose of their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is a penny stock. Trading may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and the FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our common stock. Our common stock is a penny stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined in the Rule) or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock is covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage broker-dealer and investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 