RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this prospectus before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this prospectus that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following events described in these risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our sales are influenced by general economic cycles. A prolonged period of depressed consumer spending would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Apparel is a cyclical industry that is dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchase of apparel generally decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low. Our customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, increases in energy costs or interest rates, acts of war, acts of nature or terrorist or political events that diminish consumer spending and confidence in any of the regions in which we compete, could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We currently sell to customers in the U.S., the EU and Japan. Accordingly, economic conditions and consumer spending patterns in these regions could affect our sales, and an economic down turn in one or more of these regions could have an adverse effect on our business. Intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry could reduce our sales and prices. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other apparel manufacturers both in China and other countries. Some of these competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may be able to adapt to changes in consumer preferences or retail requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them if we cannot continue enhancing our marketing and management strategies, quality and value or responding appropriately to consumers needs. The success of our business depends upon our ability to offer innovative and upgraded products at attractive price points. The worldwide apparel industry is characterized by constant product innovation due to changing consumer preferences and by the rapid replication of new products by competitors. As a result, our success depends in large part on our ability to continuously and rapidly respond to customer requirements for innovative and stylish products at a competitive pace, intensity, and price. Failure on our part to regularly and rapidly respond to customer requirements could adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customers or to acquire new customers which would limit our sales growth. The worldwide apparel industry is subject to ongoing pricing pressure. The apparel market is characterized by low barriers to entry for both suppliers and marketers, global sourcing through suppliers located throughout the world, trade liberalization, continuing movement of product sourcing to lower cost countries, ongoing emergence of new competitors with widely varying strategies and resources, and an increasing focus on apparel in the mass merchant channel of distribution. These factors contribute to ongoing pricing pressure throughout the supply chain. This pressure has and may continue to: 15 Table of Contents · require us to reduce wholesale prices on existing products; · result in reduced gross margins across our product lines; · increase pressure on us to further reduce our production costs and our operating expenses. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Fluctuation in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. We purchase raw materials directly from local fabric and accessory suppliers. We may also import specialty fabrics to meet specific customer requirements. We also purchase finished goods from other contract manufacturers. The prices we charge for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials used to produce them. The price, availability and quality of our raw materials may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather patterns, supply conditions, transportation costs, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Any raw material price increases could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we did not rely on any one supplier which exceeds 10% of all of our total supply purchases. We do not have any long-term written agreements with any of these suppliers and do not anticipate entering into any such agreements in the near future. However, we always execute a written agreement for each order placed with our suppliers. We do not believe that loss on any of these suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain finished goods or raw materials essential to our business because we believe we can locate other suppliers in a timely manner. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on some key customers for a significant portion of our sales. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s performance or financial position could harm our business and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our five largest customers represented approximately 56% of our total net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our five largest customers represented approximately 59% of our total net sales. The garment manufacturing industry has experienced substantial consolidation in recent years, which has resulted in increased customer leverage over suppliers, greater exposure for suppliers to credit risk and an increased emphasis by customers on inventory management and productivity. A decision by a major customer, whether motivated by competitive considerations, strategic shifts, financial requirements or difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, to decrease its purchases from us or to change its manner of doing business with us, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, while we have long-standing customer relationships, we do not have long term contracts with any of our customers. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated by either party at any time. We do not believe that there is any material risk of loss of any of these customers during the next 12 months. We also believe that the unexpected loss of these four customers could have material adverse effect on our earnings or financial condition. While we believe that we could replace these three customers within 12 months, the loss of which will not have material adverse effect on our financial condition in the long term. None of our affiliates are officers, directors, or material shareholders of any of these three customers. 16 Table of Contents Our internal controls and procedures have been materially deficient, and we are in the process of correcting internal control deficiencies. In the second quarter of 2007, resulting from comments by and discussions with the staff of the SEC related to our Preliminary Information Statement on Form 14C, we and our independent registered public accounting firm recognized that our internal controls had material weaknesses. We restated our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our quarterly results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 as a result of our purchase accounting for the acquisition of New-Tailun completed on December 30, 2006. In 2006 and 2007, we did not maintain effective controls to ensure the completeness, accuracy, and valuation over the accounting for business combinations, including the inability to prepare financial statements and footnotes in accordance with SEC rules and regulations and with our 2006 acquisition of New-Tailun. We misapplied generally accepted accounting principles whereby we did not value the acquisitions and record the resulting purchase accounting in accordance with SFAS 141 and EITF 02-5. As a result, we were required to restate our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006 and for the three months ended March 31, 2007. If we cannot rectify these material weaknesses through remedial measures and improvements to our systems and procedures, management may encounter difficulties in timely assessing business performance and identifying incipient strategic and oversight issues. Management is currently focused on remedying internal control deficiencies, and this focus will require management from time to time to devote its attention away from other planning, oversight and performance functions. We cannot provide assurances as to the timing of the completion of these efforts. We cannot be certain that the measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We will be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to timely comply with the requirements of Section 404 or any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on the trading price of our debt and equity securities. We currently are not an “accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Beginning with our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control report with our Annual Report on Form 10-K. That report must include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. This report must also include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that we have identified. Additionally, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue reports on management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and their evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our assessment requires us to make subjective judgments and our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our assessment. 17 Table of Contents Achieving compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. If we are not able to complete our assessments as required under Section 404 in a timely manner, we and our independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2008. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our debt securities. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our management’s assessment or conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. We will continue to consistently improve our internal control over the financial reporting with our best efforts and we plan to engage assistance from outside experts in doing so. We are listed on the over-the-counter bulletin board, and therefore we are subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements as opposed to a company listed on a national exchange. Specifically, we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board, nor do we have a separate audit committee, as these requirements are not applicable to us, and this provides less protection to our investors. Our board of directors currently does not have a separate audit committee or a member that qualifies as an audit committee financial expert or an independent director. In addition, we do not have an independent majority on our board of directors. Our management and board of directors are considering the addition of an independent director who qualified as a financial expert but there can be no assurance we will be able to attract one or more qualified independent directors or that any such directors can be added to our board as it may require us to increase the number of director on our board of directors, seek the resignation of directors who are not independent, or some combination thereof. If we are unable to attract qualified independent directors or nominate or elect such directors, our security holders will not have the protections provided by having independent directors or audit committee members. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be independent, we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by our shareholders. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations, and we regularly evaluate these systems against our current and expected requirements. Although we have no current plans to implement modifications or upgrades to our systems, we will eventually be required to make changes to legacy systems and acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are considering additional investments in updating our ERP system to help us improve our internal control system and to meet compliance requirements under Section 404. We are also continuing to develop and update our internal information systems on a timely basis to meet our business expansion needs. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We may engage in future acquisitions and strategic investments that dilute the ownership percentage of our shareholders and require the use of cash, incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. 18 Table of Contents As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy or invest in other businesses or technologies that we believe would enhance our manufacturing capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy or invest in other businesses in the future, this may require the use of our cash, or we may incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy or invest in other businesses or technologies that we believe would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy or invest in other businesses, products or technologies in the future, we could: · incur significant unplanned expenses and personnel costs; · issue stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; · use cash, which may result in a reduction of our liquidity; · incur debt; · assume liabilities; and · spend resources on unconsummated transactions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and strategic investments, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We may in the future acquire or make strategic investments in additional companies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these or any other acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: · problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products over geographically disparate locations; · unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · incurrence of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; · potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization; and · If we are not be able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire, or to realize expected benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. International political instability and concerns about other international crises may increase our cost of doing business and disrupt our business. International political instability may halt or hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the EU, the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, can suddenly increase international tensions. Increases in energy prices will also impact our costs and could harm our operating results. In addition, concerns about other international crises, such as the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”), avian influenza, or bird flu, and West Nile viruses, may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect our business operations or the operations of our OEM partners, contract manufacturer and suppliers. This political instability and concerns about other international crises may, for example: 19 Table of Contents · negatively affect the reliability and cost of transportation; · negatively affect the desire and ability of our employees and customers to travel; · adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates; · require us to take extra security precautions for our operations; and · furthermore, to the extent that air or sea transportation is delayed or disrupted, our operations may be disrupted, particularly if shipments of our products are delayed. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations and the operations of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. In the event of a major natural disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and loss of life. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects us or our suppliers or customers, shipments could be delayed and our business and financial results could be harmed. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Because our assets are located overseas, shareholders may not receive distributions that they would otherwise be entitled to if we were declared bankrupt or insolvent. Our assets are, for the most part, located in the PRC. Because our assets are located overseas, our assets may be outside of the jurisdiction of U.S. courts to administer if we are the subject of an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding. As a result, if we declared bankruptcy or insolvency, our shareholders may not receive the distributions on liquidation that they would otherwise be entitled to if our assets were to be located within the U.S., under U.S. bankruptcy law. Export quotas imposed by the WTO could negatively affect our business and operations, particularly if the Chinese government changes its allocation of such quotas to us. Pursuant to a World Trade Organization (WTO) agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the United States and other WTO member countries agreed to remove quotas applicable to textiles. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the U.S. took action in May 2005 and imposed safeguard quotas on seven categories of goods, including certain classes of apparel products, arousing strong objection from China. On June 10, 2005, in response to the surge of Chinese imports into the European Union (EU), the EU Commission signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with China in which ten categories of textiles and apparel are subject to restraints. Additionally, on November 8, 2005, the U.S. and China entered into a Memorandum of Understanding in which 21 categories of textiles and apparel are subject to restraints. 20 Table of Contents Although certain of our apparel products fall within the categories subject to the safeguards in the U.S. and the EU, which could adversely affect our ability to export and sell these products, the imposition of quotas in 2005 did not have a material effect on our net sales, although it did impact our gross margin. The imposition of quotas did not have a material effect on our net sales or our gross margins in both 2006 and 2007. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We believe that we will be able to obtain a sufficient quota allocation based on our experience in prior years. In addition, we may bid for additional export quota allocation from the government for the U.S. and EU markets. On a longer term basis, we believe that our customer mix and our ability to adjust the types of apparel we manufacture will mitigate our exposure to such trade restrictions in the future. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that additional trade restrictions will not be imposed on the exportation of our products in the future. Such actions could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and may adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. All of our business operations are currently conducted in the PRC, under the jurisdiction of the PRC government. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Unprecedented rapid economic growth in China may increase our costs of doing business, and may negatively impact our profit margins and/or profitability. Our business depends in part upon the availability of relatively low-cost labor and materials. Rising wages in China may increase our overall costs of production. In addition, rising raw material costs, due to strong demand and greater scarcity, may increase our overall costs of production. If we are not able to pass these costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices, our profit margins and/or profitability could decline. Fluctuation in the value of Chinese Renminbi (RMB) relative to other currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business and/or an investment in our shares. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. In the last decade, the RMB has been pegged at 8.2765 yuan to one U.S. Dollar. On July 21, 2005 it was revalued to 8.11 per U.S. dollar. Following the removal of the peg to the U.S. Dollar and pressure from the United States, the People’s Bank of China also announced that the RMB would be pegged to a basket of foreign currencies, rather than being strictly tied to the U.S. Dollar, and would be allowed to float trade within a narrow 0.3% daily band against this basket of currencies. The PRC government has stated that the basket is dominated by the U.S. Dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen and South Korean Won, with a smaller proportion made up of the British Pound, Thai Baht, Russian Ruble, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Singapore Dollar. There can be no assurance that the relationship between the RMB and these currencies will remain stable over time, especially in light of the significant political pressure on the Chinese government to permit the free flotation of the RMB, which could result in greater and more frequent fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB, the U.S. dollar, and the Euro. If the RMB were to increase in value against the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, for example, consumers in the U.S., Japan and Europe would experience an increase in the relative prices of goods and services produced by us, which might translate into a decrease in sales. In addition, if the RMB were to decline in value against these other currencies, the financial value of your investment in our shares would also decline. 21 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because our subsidiaries are incorporated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and all of our officers reside outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in Florida, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation doing business entirely within the United States. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our common stock has limited liquidity. Our common stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. It is thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies in the same industry. Thinly traded common stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. The high and low bid price of Ever-Glory’s common stock during the past 52 week period is $5.00 and $1.60 per share respectively. Our stock is categorized as a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations which may limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our stock is categorized as a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, FINRAhas adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. We expect to experience volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect shareholders’ investments. The market price for shares of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate based upon a number of factors, including, without limitation, business performance, news announcements or changes in general market conditions. Other factors, in addition to the those risks included in this section, that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: · receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations of products; · quality deficiencies in services or products; · international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; · changes in recommendations of securities analysts; · shortfalls in our backlog, sales or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts or projected by us; · government regulations, including stock option accounting and tax regulations; · energy blackouts; · acts of terrorism and war; · widespread illness; · proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; · strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; · rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices; or · earthquakes or other natural disasters in Nanjing, China where a significant portion of our operations are based. 23 Table of Contents In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of our common stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders, including holders who will have already converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of the notes into our shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the shares of common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares of common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our shares of common stock. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We presently intend to retain all earnings for our operations. Our common shares are not currently traded at high volume, and you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell or liquidate a substantial number of shares at one time. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for its common stock will develop or be sustained. However, we do not rule out the possibility of applying for listing on the American Stock Exchange or Nasdaq Capital Market or other markets. Our common shares are currently traded, but currently with low volume, based on quotations on the “Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is still relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that trading levels will be sustained. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for “penny stocks” has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the future volatility of our share price. 24 Table of Contents Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. Our principal shareholders, which includes our officers and directors, and their affiliated entities own approximately 47% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of these shareholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our shareholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal shareholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for shareholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as shareholders will be viewed favorably by all of our shareholders. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Florida law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our amended and restated Articles of Incorporation contain a provision permitting us to eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders to the extent provided by Florida law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and there may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rule changes as well as proposed legislative initiatives following the Enron bankruptcy are likely to increase general and administrative costs and expenses. In addition, insurers are likely to increase premiums as a result of high claims rates over the past several years, which we expect will increase our premiums for insurance policies. Further, there could be changes in certain accounting rules. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent material misstatements. We are subject to reporting obligations concerning our internal controls, under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and report on the effectiveness of these controls. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to sales revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent material misstatements, or in certain extreme cases, fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 