ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have significant working capital requirements and have historically been heavily reliant upon the issuance of debt, including debt from related parties, to meet these working capital requirements. Historically, we have experienced negative working capital. Historically, we have experienced negative working capital balances, and as of September 30, 2010 and September 30, 2009, we had negative working capital of ($6,774,000) and ($4,725,000), respectively. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses relating to employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. We finance our operations primarily through sales of our receivables to a financial institution with recourse, issuance of debt, including debt issued to related parties, and through cash generated by operating activities. Three of our operating subsidiaries are parties to account purchase agreements with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”), pursuant to which, the maximum amount of accounts receivable that can be sold to Wells Fargo in the aggregate is $28 million, with each subsidiary subject to a limit on the amount of trade receivables that it may individually sell to Wells Fargo. Subject to exception, the purchaser advances 90% of the assigned receivables’ value upon sale, and 10% upon final collection. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, we may replenish these with new receivables. The risk of bad debt losses on accounts receivables sold is retained by us and receivables sold which become greater than 90 days old can be charged back to us by Wells Fargo. Any such increase in accounts receivables older than 90 days and charged back would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. As of September 30, 2010, we owed $260,000 under promissory notes that are past due or which are due upon demand, $100,000 of which is due to a related party. As of the filing date of this report we have been unable to secure forbearance agreements. Two holders of such promissory notes issued demand notices for us with respect to notes with outstanding amounts due of approximately $150,000. We have no assurance that other debt holders will not declare the remaining instruments in default and exercise their rights and remedies, including declaring all unpaid amounts, including interest, immediately due and payable on their notes. We have, in the past, been required to manage our cash aggressively to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements and to service debt. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible and seeking to generate cash from a variety of other sources. We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities. Any such increase or sustained negative cash flows would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. There is no assurance that we will generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to pay our debt as it becomes due or meet the funding needs of our business in the future due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the staffing industry and the other factors discussed below in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would consider taking a variety of actions, including: attempting to reduce fixed costs (for example, further reducing the size of our administrative work force), curtailing or reducing planned capital additions, raising additional equity, borrowing additional funds, refinancing existing indebtedness or taking other actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully take any of these actions, including adjusting expenses sufficiently or in a timely manner, or raising additional equity, increasing borrowings or completing a refinancing on any terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Our inability to take these actions as and when necessary would materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. If our accounts receivable sale agreements are terminated, we may be unable to secure alternate arrangements on comparable terms and our business could suffer. Our accounts receivable sale agreements may be terminated by Wells Fargo upon the occurrence of certain events of default, and, in the case of the agreement with Accountabilities, at any time in the broad discretion of Wells Fargo. In the event of any such termination, we may be unable to finance our operations and our operations and working capital would be negatively impacted. As a result of a continuing guarantee by each of CRD, Insurance Overload, and ourselves, a default under one accounts receivable sale agreement by one of our operating subsidiaries could create financial difficulty for us and the non-defaulting operating subsidiaries. In addition, we may be unable to secure alternative arrangements, or any such alternative arrangements may include terms and conditions less favorable to us than under our current accounts receivable sale agreements. Finding such alternative arrangements may be difficult given the current economic climate and the reduction in the number of entities willing to provide this type of financing. This could adversely affect our ability to secure sufficient working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses. 4 Our principal stockholder, whose affiliated entities are engaged in multiple transactions with us, beneficially owns, together with its affiliated entities and persons, approximately 74.3% of our outstanding common stock, and its interests may conflict with our interests and those of our other shareholders. TSE, its affiliated entity TS Staffing and affiliated persons, own approximately 74.3% of our outstanding common stock. Each of TSE and TS Staffing is wholly-owned by Robert Cassera, a director of the Company. Transactions between us and affiliates of TSE include the guarantee of our subsidiaries’ obligations under the accounts receivable agreements with Wells Fargo, the provision of professional employer services to our subsidiaries, the exchange of our indebtedness for shares of our Common Stock and the sale of Tri-Overload to us. On January 10, 2011, we also entered into an agreement to acquire another affiliate of TSE, Tri-Diamond. As a result of such ownership, TSE and its affiliates have the ability to cause the election of all of the members of our board of directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by TSE and affiliates will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. Additionally, certain employees of TSE hold management positions in our company, including Jay Schecter, our Chief Executive Officer and John Messina, our President, both of whom are also compensated by TSE and receive no salary or bonus compensation directly from us. The interests of TSE and its affiliates could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, TSE beneficially owns several other companies that compete in the light industrial and administrative staffing market. Decisions made by TSE and its affiliates regarding us and those companies could benefit them at our expense. In addition, TSE and certain of its affiliates have the ability to divert resources from us to those companies, which would also diminish our competitive position. Should the guarantee of our accounts receivable sale agreements by the TSE affiliate be terminated, these financing agreements may also be terminated. Additionally, if TSE’s affiliates, TS Employment, Inc. (“TS Employment”) and TSE-PEO, Inc. (“TSE-PEO”), were to cease providing us with professional employer services (which include payroll related administrative services), we may not be able to secure a comparable provider of such services at agreeable rates. Should we be unsuccessful at finding a comparable provider, we may not be able to secure required workers compensation insurance on affordable terms. The failure to obtain a comparable provider of workers compensation insurance at affordable rates would possibly require significant capital requirements that are not currently available. In addition, we may not be able to pass these increased costs to our clients, and this would reduce our profit margins. We have historically been, and may continue to be, heavily reliant upon financing from related parties which presents potential conflicts of interest. We have historically obtained financing from related parties including major shareholders, directors and officers, in the form of debt, debt guarantees and the issuance of equity securities, to finance working capital growth and acquisitions. These related parties have the ability to exercise significant control over our financing decisions, which may present conflicts of interest regarding the choice of parties from whom we obtain financing, as well as the terms of financing. No assurance can be given that the terms of financing transactions with related parties are or will be as favorable as those that could be obtained in arm’s length negotiations with third parties. If we fail to execute our acquisitions or investments strategy, our business could suffer. We have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions, including the GT Systems Acquisition in April 2010, the Tri-Overload Acquisition in August 2010 and the ICG Acquisition in December 2010. In the future, we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many risks, including: · Our inability to identify suitable acquisition candidates; · We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; 5 · Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional common stock or debt, spend significant cash amounts and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; · We may have trouble integrating acquired businesses and retaining its personnel, including in connection with our more recent acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; · Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt business and distract management from its other responsibilities; · If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. Completing future acquisitions may be limited by our ability to negotiate purchase terms and/or obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, given our current working capital deficit, as discussed above, and our current inability to finance such acquisitions through current cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such acceptable purchase or financing terms. We may acquire additional companies, which may result in adverse effects on our earnings. We may, at times, become involved in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. Any acquisition that we may consummate may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, shareholders may experience dilution in their equity. We may be subject to successor liability as a result of acquisitions we have made. The growth of our business has been partially a result of acquisitions we have made, including the GT Systems Acquisition and the Tri-Overload Acquisition, each completed during fiscal 2010, and the ICG Acquisition, which was completed in December 2010. Although we have endeavored to structure these transactions to minimize exposure to unassumed liabilities, it is possible that under common law and certain statutes, creditors of the entities that sold us these operations could attempt to assert that we have successor liability for obligations of the sellers. Even if any such claim was unsuccessful, it could be costly to defend and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ultimate liability for unremitted payroll taxes may materially exceed our currently recorded estimated liability. We have been notified by the IRS and certain state taxing authorities that a subsidiary, which ceased operating at the end of 2004, had accumulated liabilities for unremitted payroll taxes related to the calendar year 2004. Although we believe that the subsidiary’s prior owner settled this matter with the IRS during fiscal 2010, we have maintained a reserve of $700,000 representing the amount management believes may ultimately be payable based upon our knowledge of current events and circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that future events and circumstances will not result in an ultimate liability, including penalties and interest, materially in excess of our current estimate. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the nature of our business of placing workers in the workplace of other businesses on a temporary or permanent basis, we are subject to a large number of laws and regulations relating to employment. The risks related to engaging in such business include but are not limited to: · claims of discrimination and harassment (including sexual harassment claims); · violations of wage and hour laws; · criminal activity; · claims relating to actions by customers including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets; and 6 · immigration related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management and could have a material negative effect on our business. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate, but our insurance may not be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities, and we may not be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Should some or all of these claims arise, they may have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced significant management turnover. During our past two fiscal years, we have experienced a significant turnover in our senior management. In fiscal 2009, we experienced changes in our President and Chief Executive Officer positions, and in fiscal 2010, our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance resigned. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term history with us, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs which could adversely impact our results of operations, our stock price and our customer relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization or who join us through acquisitions in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. We bear the risk of nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients. If a client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we are obligated to pay the agreed-upon fees to our professional employment services providers, TS Employment and TSE-PEO, whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. Given the current continuing difficult economic environment, there is an increased risk of clients failing to pay or delaying payment, although currently, we have not experienced significant levels of these occurrences. A significant increase in uncollected accounts receivables or customer defaults would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Our business is highly competitive, with low barriers to entry. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger staff. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. We expect that the level of competition will remain high. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our existing business and future prospects. Any further significant economic downturn could result in our customers using fewer staffing services, which could materially adversely affect our business. The economic downturn has negatively affected our business and financial results. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity. As economic activity slows, many customers reduce their utilization of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular full-time employees. Demand for permanent placement services also slows as the labor pool directly available to our customers increases, making it easier for them to identify new employees directly. Typically, we may experience increased pricing pressures from competitors during periods of economic downturn, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, in geographic areas where we derive a significant amount of business, a further regional or localized economic downturn could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. 7 Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent personnel. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates, as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time, could materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to provide clients with highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. Such individuals are in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers. There can be no assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms. Additionally, we may not be able to develop training programs to respond to our clients’ changing needs or retain temporary and permanent personnel who we have trained. Our common stock is thinly traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, and we cannot give assurance that our common stock will become more liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American Stock Exchange, NASDAQ, or New York Stock Exchange). We may not be able to meet the listing standards of any stock exchange or that we will be able to maintain any such listing. Such exchanges require companies to meet certain initial listing criteria including certain minimum bid prices per share. We may not be able to achieve or maintain such minimum bid prices or may be required to effect a reverse stock split to achieve such minimum bid prices. Because our shares are quoted on the OTC, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and for investors to dispose of their shares of our common stock. Stockholders may experience future dilution in ownership due to possible future equity issuances, the payment of the purchase price in stock for future acquisitions, the exercise of outstanding warrants, the conversion of existing convertible debt securities, and the conversion of existing debt to equity in connection with certain restructuring activities. As of September 30, 2010, we have outstanding convertible debt securities that may be converted into 250,000 shares, and outstanding warrants to acquire 166,000 shares of our common stock. We are also in discussions to obtain further financing, which may include the issuance of additional equity. During fiscal 2010, we issued 8,589,637 shares of common stock to a related party as payment of the purchase price to acquire Tri-Overload, and 6,000,000 shares of common stock to a related party in exchange for the cancellation of outstanding debt and the assumption of a payment obligation. We may issue additional shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. Additional issuances of common stock could subject our stockholders to dilution, depending on the prices at which the shares are issued. ITEM 