ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have significant working capital requirements and have historically been heavily reliant upon the issuance of debt, including debt from related parties, to meet these working capital requirements. Historically, we have experienced negative working capital. Historically, we have experienced negative working capital balances, and as of September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008 we had negative working capital of ($2,732,000) and ($2,389,000), respectively. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses relating to employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. We finance our operations primarily through sales of our receivables to a financial institution, issuance of debt, including debt issued to related parties, and through cash generated by operating activities. Under the terms of our receivable sale agreement the maximum amount of trade receivables that can be sold is $8,000,000, for which the purchaser advances 90% of the assigned receivables’ value upon sale, and 10% upon final collection. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, we may replenish these with new receivables. The risk we bear from bad debt losses on trade receivables sold is retained by us and receivables sold which become greater than 90 days old can be charged back to us by the purchaser. Any such increase in trade receivables older than 90 days and charged back would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. As of September 30, 2009, we owed $705,000 under promissory notes that are past due or which are due upon demand, $421,000 of which is due to related parties. As of the filing date of this report we have been unable to secure forbearance agreements and have no assurance that these debt holders will not declare these instruments in default and exercise their rights and remedies, including declaring all unpaid amounts, including interest, immediately due and payable. We have, in the past, been required to aggressively manage our cash to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements and to service debt. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible and working to generate cash from a variety of other sources. We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities. Any such increase or sustained negative cash flows would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. There is no assurance that we will generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to pay our debt as it becomes due or meet the funding needs of our business in the future due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the staffing industry and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would consider taking a variety of actions, including: attempting to reduce fixed costs (for example, further reducing the size of our administrative work force), curtailing or reducing planned capital additions, raising additional equity, borrowing additional funds, refinancing existing indebtedness or taking other actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully take any of these actions, including adjusting expenses sufficiently or in a timely manner, or raising additional equity, increasing borrowings or completing refinancing on any terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Our inability to take these actions as and when necessary would materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. If our receivables sale agreement is terminated, we may be unable to secure an alternate arrangement on comparable terms and our business could suffer. Our receivable sale agreement may be terminated by the financial institution at any time in the discretion of the financial institution, which has broad latitude in determining to so terminate. In the event of such termination, our operations and working capital would be negatively impacted. In addition, we may be unable to secure an alternative arrangement, or any alternative arrangement we may be able to secure could include terms and conditions less favorable to us than under our current receivable sale agreement. Finding such an alternative arrangement may be difficult given the current economic climate and the reduction in the number of entities willing to enter into such an arrangement. This could adversely affect our ability to secure sufficient working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses relating to employment of temporary employees. 3 If we fail to execute our acquisitions or investments, our business could suffer. Historically, we have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions. In the future, we may do so through acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many risks, including: · We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; · Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional common stock or debt, spend significant cash amounts or decrease our operating income; · We may have trouble integrating the acquired business and retaining its personnel; · Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt business and distract management from other responsibilities; and · If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. Completing such acquisitions will be limited by our ability to negotiate purchase terms and/or obtain third party financing on terms acceptable to us, given our current working capital deficit, as discussed above, and our current inability to finance such acquisitions through current cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such acceptable purchase terms or third party financing. We may acquire additional companies, which may result in adverse effects on our earnings. We may, at times, become involved in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. Any acquisition that we may consummate may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, shareholders may experience dilution in their equity. We previously obtained growth through acquisitions of other companies and businesses. Under Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141), as codified in FASB ASC Topic 805 “Business Combinations” (ASC 805) and No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142), as codified in FASB ASC Topic 350 “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other” (ASC 350), we are required to periodically review goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for possible impairment. In the event that we are required to write down the value of any assets under these pronouncements, it may materially and adversely affect our earnings. Our management may be unable to effectively integrate acquisitions and to manage growth, and may be unable to fully realize any anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Our business strategy includes growth through both acquisitions and internal development. We are subject to various risks associated with our growth strategy, including the risk that we will be unable to identify and recruit suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to integrate and manage the acquired companies. Acquired companies’ histories, geographical locations, business models and business cultures can be different from ours in many respects. Senior management may face significant challenges in our efforts to integrate our businesses and the business of the acquired companies or assets, and to effectively manage continued growth. There can be no assurance that efforts to integrate the operations of any acquired assets or companies acquired in the future will be successful, that we can manage its growth or that the anticipated benefits of these proposed acquisitions will be fully realized. The dedication of management resources to these efforts may detract attention from day-to-day business. There can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with these activities or of the success of the integration efforts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be subject to successor liability as a result of acquisitions we have made. The growth of our business has been partially a result of acquisitions we made in fiscal 2006 and 2007, including our acquisition of three general staffing offices from Stratus Services Group, Inc. (the “Stratus Acquisition”), five general staffing offices from US Temp Services, Inc. (the “US Temp Acquisition”) and three general staffing offices of ReStaff (the “ReStaff Acquisition”). Although we have endeavored to structure these transactions to minimize exposure to unassumed liabilities, it is possible that under common law and certain statutes that creditors of the entities that sold us these operations could attempt to assert that we have successor liability for obligations of the sellers. Even if any such claim was unsuccessful, it could be costly to defend and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 4 Our ultimate liability for unremitted payroll taxes may materially exceed our currently recorded estimated liability. We have been notified by the IRS and certain state taxing authorities that a subsidiary which ceased operating at the end of 2004 has accumulated liabilities for unremitted payroll taxes related to the calendar year 2004. Consequently we have recorded a liability of $700,000 representing the amount management believes will ultimately be payable for this liability based upon our knowledge of current events and circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that future events and circumstances will not result in an ultimate liability, including penalties and interest, materially in excess of our current estimate. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the nature of our business of placing workers in the workplace of other businesses on a temporary or permanent basis we are subject to a large number of laws and regulations relating to employment. The risks related to engaging in such business include but are not limited to: · claims of discrimination and harassment, · violations of wage and hour laws, · criminal activity, · claims relating to actions by customers including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets, and · immigration related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management, and could have a negative effect on our business. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities or that we will be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not experience these issues in the future or that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business. TSE, from whom we lease the majority of our workforce, beneficially owns approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock, and its interests may conflict with the interests of Accountabilities and our other shareholders. We lease the majority of our workers from TSE, a staffing services and employee leasing provider and major shareholder of our company. TSE beneficially owns approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of such ownership, TSE has the ability to cause the election of all of the members of our board of directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by TSE will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. Additionally, certain employees of TSE hold management positions in our company, including Jay Schecter, our Chief Executive Officer and John Messina our President, both of whom are also compensated by TSE and receive no compensation directly from us. The interests of TSE could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, TSE beneficially owns 100% of two subsidiaries that compete in the light industrial and administrative staffing market. Decisions made by TSE regarding us and their wholly owned subsidiaries could benefit their wholly owned subsidiaries at our expense and TSE has the ability to divert resources from us to their wholly owned subsidiaries, both of which could cause our competitive position to be diminished. Through our employee leasing agreement with TSE, TSE is the statutory employer, whereas we are responsible for the hiring, termination, compensation structure, management, supervision and otherwise overall performance and day to day duties of all employees. We lease employees in order to mitigate certain insurance risks and obtain greater employee benefits at more advantages rates via TSE’s much larger scale. Employees are leased from TSE based upon agreed upon rates which are dependent upon the individual employee’s compensation structure, as agreed to between us and the employee. Should our arrangement with TSE terminate we cannot be assured that we would be able to secure a comparable leasing provider at agreeable rates. Should we be unsuccessful at finding a comparable employee leasing provider we cannot be assured that we would be able to secure required workers compensation insurance on affordable terms. The failure to obtain a comparable employee leasing provider or workers compensation insurance at affordable rates would possibly require significant working capital requirements which are not currently necessary. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful at passing these increased costs to our clients which may reduce our profit margins. 5 We have experienced significant management turnover. In the past three quarters, we have experienced a significant turnover in our senior management. In fiscal 2009, we experienced changes in our President and Chief Executive Officer positions, and most recently, in December 2009 our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance positions. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term history with us, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, could adversely impact our stock price and our customer relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. We bear the risk of nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients. To the extent that any particular client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we are obligated to pay the agreed upon fees to our employees leasing provider TSE, whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. Given the current continuing economic recession there is an increased risk of clients failing to pay or delaying payment, although currently, we have not experienced significant levels of these occurrences. However, a significant increase in uncollected account receivables would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Our failure to remain competitive could harm our business. Our business is highly competitive. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any further significant economic downturn could result in our customers using fewer staffing services, which could materially adversely affect our business. The current economic downturn has negatively affected our business and financial results. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity. As economic activity slows, many customers reduce their utilization of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular full-time employees. Further, demand for permanent placement services also slows as the labor pool directly available to our customers increases, making it easier for them to identify new employees directly. Typically, we may experience increased pricing pressures from competitors during periods of economic downturn, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, in geographic areas where we derive a significant amount of business, a further regional or localized economic downturn could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent personnel. Our success depends on our ability to provide clients with highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. Such individuals are in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers. There can be no assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time could materially adversely affect our business. Our common stock is thinly traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we cannot give assurance that our common stock will become liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American, NASDAQ, or New York Stock Exchange). We cannot give assurance that we will be able to meet the listing standards of any stock exchange or that we will be able to maintain any such listing. Such exchanges require companies to meet certain initial listing criteria including certain minimum bid prices per share. We may not be able to achieve or maintain such minimum bid prices or may be required to effect a reverse stock split to achieve such minimum bid prices. Because our shares are quoted on the OTC, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and for investors to dispose of their shares of our common stock. 6 We have historically been, and may continue to be, heavily reliant upon financing from related parties which presents potential conflicts of interest. We have historically obtained financing from related parties including major shareholders, directors and officers, in the form of both debt and equity securities issued to finance working capital growth and acquisitions. These related parties have the ability to exercise significant control over our financing decisions, which may present conflicts of interest regarding the choice of parties to obtain financing from, as well as the terms of financing instruments that we enter into with them, and as a result, no assurance can be given that the terms of financing transactions with related parties are or will be as favorable as those that could be obtained in arms-length negotiations with third parties. Stockholders may experience future dilution in ownership due to possible future equity issuances, the exercise of outstanding warrants, the conversion of existing convertible debt securities, and the conversion of existing debt to equity in connection with certain restructuring activities. As of September 30, 2009, we have outstanding convertible debt securities that may be converted into 522,000 shares, and outstanding warrants to acquire 166,000 shares of common stock. We are also in negotiations to further reduce our debt through restructurings which may include further conversions of outstanding debt to equity, and are also in discussions to obtain further financing, which may include the issuance of additional equity. Additional issuances of common stock will subject our stockholders to dilution and reduce their percentage interest in our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 