ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face, our management believes that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows:Our working capital requirements are funded in great measure with the proceeds from our accounts purchase agreements which are treated for accounting purposes as a receivables-backed revolving credit line. Our subsidiaries, Accountabilities, CRD, Diamond Staffing, ICG, Insurance Overload, and TS Staffing are parties to account purchase agreements with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, an operating division of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo") pursuant to which a maximum amount of $80.0 million of accounts receivable can be financed through Wells Fargo, or the Facility. The Facility is personally guaranteed by our majority shareholder. The Facility allows for 90% of qualifying receivables to be funded. The Facility calls for twice weekly net settlement of the additions, required repurchases and customer repayments. The risk of bad debt losses on assigned accounts receivables is retained by us and receivables assigned which become greater than 90 days old (120 days for certain categories of receivables), at Wells Fargo’s option, can become ineligible for funding. Any increase in accounts receivables older than 90 days and declared ineligible for funding will decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. In the event that our majority shareholder ceases to guarantee the Facility, the facility may be closed. The Facility expires on June 30, 2015. There can be no assurance that we can secure an alternative arrangements and that such arrangement, if any, will not include terms and conditions less favorable to us than under our current accounts receivable sale agreements. If we are unable to secure alternative arrangements, we may be unable to finance our operations and our operations and working capital would be negatively impacted. If we cannot raise sufficient funds, we may have to liquidate our assets, and might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. 4Table of ContentsOur current financing arrangement has restrictive covenants and additional financial conditions. The documents that govern our outstanding financing arrangement with Wells Fargo Bank contain customary negative covenants, financial and operating covenants and business terms that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness.Failure to comply with any of these covenants, including the financial coverage ratios, could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the documents that govern our outstanding indebtedness contain certain cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our future financial statements. We may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that our management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, our management must conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management, with the participation of our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, has determined that we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of January 3, 2014 related to our information technology systems as well as an inadequate control environment around the technical knowledge, application and procedures required to assure compliance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”).A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are actively engaged in developing and implementing a remediation plan designed to address such material weaknesses. However, additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. Any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. These misstatements could result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, reduce our ability to obtain financing or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.Although we are working to remedy the ineffectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed, when it will be fully implemented or the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented, our management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future consolidated financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. For more information relating to our internal control over financial reporting (and disclosure controls and procedures) and the remediation plan undertaken by us, see Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.”We have significant working capital requirements and have historically experienced negative working capital balances. If we experience such negative working capital balances in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and pay expenses relating to the employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. We finance our operations primarily through factoring of our receivables to financial institutions with recourse; issuances of debt, including debt issued to related parties; and through cash generated by our operating activities. We have been required to aggressively manage working capital to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements and to service debt. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible, and seeking to generate cash from a variety of other sources. There is no assurance that we will generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to meet our working capital requirements and pay our debt as it becomes due in the future due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the 5Table of Contentsstaffing industry and other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would consider taking a variety of actions, including attempting to reduce fixed costs (for example, further reducing the size of our administrative work force), curtailing or reducing planned capital additions, raising additional equity, borrowing additional funds, refinancing existing indebtedness or taking other actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully take any of these actions, including adjusting expenses sufficiently or in a timely manner, or raising additional equity, increasing borrowings or completing a refinancing on any terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Our inability to take these actions as and when necessary would materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.Our business is significantly affected by fluctuations in general economic conditions. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As economic activity slows, however, many companies reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. Significant swings in economic activity historically have had a disproportionate impact on staffing industry volumes. We may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. The vast majority of our revenues and earnings are generated by our business operations in the United States. Any significant economic downturn in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the highly competitive nature of and the low barriers of entry to the temporary staffing industry, we may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. We operate in the highly competitive temporary staffing industry, which has low barriers of entry. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, greater financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular industries or markets. We expect that the level of competition will remain high. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our existing business and future prospects. Impairment in the value of our goodwill, other intangible assets or long lived assets could negatively impact our net income and earnings per share. We are required to evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually to determine if impairment has occurred. Long-lived assets and other identifiable intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that amounts may not be recoverable. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying amount of the impaired asset and the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived impaired asset or the implied fair value of goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or potential changes in our stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could indicate impairment has occurred. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on us. We have historically been, and may continue to be, heavily reliant upon financing from related parties, which presents potential conflicts of interest that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have historically obtained financing from related parties, including major shareholders, Mr. Robert Cassera, and his affiliated companies, in the form of debt, debt guarantees and issuances of equity securities, to finance working capital, growth and acquisitions. Mr. Cassera and his affiliated companies have the ability to exercise significant control over our financing decisions, which may present conflicts of interest regarding the choice of parties from whom we obtain financing, as well as the terms of financing. No assurance can be given that the terms of financing transactions with Mr. Cassera and his affiliated companies are or will be as favorable as those that could be obtained in arms’ length negotiations with third parties. Moreover, because Mr. Cassera and his affiliated companies have the ability to exercise significant control over our financing decisions, there can be no assurance that we would enforce any rights and claims that we have or may have against these parties relating to the transactions. 6Table of ContentsOur principal stockholder, whose affiliated entities are engaged in multiple transactions with us, beneficially owned, together with its affiliated entities and persons, approximately 141,647,000 of our outstanding shares of common stock as of January 3, 2014 , and his interests may conflict with our interests and those of our other shareholders.Robert Cassera, a member of our Board, beneficially owned approximately 89.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of January 3, 2014. Mr. Cassera has interest in and controls a group of affiliated entities ("Tri-State") in addition to his interest and control of us. Transactions between us and Tri-State include Mr. Cassera’s guarantee of our subsidiaries’ obligations under the Facility with Wells Fargo, the provision of professional employer services to our subsidiaries, and, in the past, the exchange of our indebtedness for shares of our common stock and our acquisitions of Tri-Overload, Tri-Diamond, TS Staffing, and Summit Software. The interests of Mr. Cassera and Tri-State could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of such ownership, Mr. Cassera has the ability to cause the election of all of the members of the Board, appoint new management and approve actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amending our certificate of incorporation and merging us with or into another entity or selling all or substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by Mr. Cassera and Tri-State will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. In addition, certain employees of Tri-State hold management positions in our company, including John Messina, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. While we do not have any written policies or procedures in place that address potential conflicts of interest arising from Mr. Messina’s employment with TSE and his management responsibilities with us, we intend to present any potential conflicts that may arise in the future to our Audit Committee for their review. Additionally, if Tri-State’s affiliated companies, including TSE, TS Employment, Inc., or TS Employment, and TSE-PEO, Inc., or TSE-PEO, were to cease providing us with professional employer services (which include payroll and related administrative services), we may not be able to secure a comparable provider of such services at agreeable rates. Should we be unsuccessful at finding a comparable provider, we may not be able to secure required workers’ compensation insurance on affordable terms. The failure to obtain a comparable provider of workers’ compensation insurance at affordable rates would possibly require significant capital requirements that are not currently available to us. In addition, we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients, and this would reduce our profit margins. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Tri-State and its affiliated persons control a majority of our common stock. As a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance standards. Under the NASDAQ Marketplace rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a "controlled company" and have elected not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of the Board consists of independent directors;•the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and•the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.The performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute cash to us may vary, which may negatively affect our ability to service our debt at the parent company level or in other subsidiaries. Since we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to service our debt depends in great measure upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to us or to sister subsidiaries. The remittance of such cash inflows and the making of such loans and advances by our subsidiaries may be subject to legal or contractual restrictions, depend upon the earnings of those subsidiaries, and be subject to various business considerations, including the ability of such subsidiaries to remit such cash inflows or make such loans and advances in a manner that does not result in substantial tax liability or other costs. 7Table of ContentsIf we are unable to execute our acquisitions or investment strategy for growing our business, our competitiveness within the industry may suffer, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to successor liability as a result of acquisitions we have made. We have supplemented our internal growth through numerous acquisitions and purchases of customer lists. In the future, we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many risks, including:•we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates;•we may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business;•if the acquisition of a business involves a significant cash expenditure, debt incurrence or integration expense, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and cash flows;•we may have trouble integrating acquired businesses and retaining their personnel which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results;•in the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership interest;•acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt business and distract management from its other responsibilities;•if our acquisitions or investments ultimately fail, our business could be harmed; and•completing future acquisitions may be limited by our ability to negotiate purchase terms and/or obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, given our current inability to finance such acquisitions through current cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such acceptable purchase or financing terms.Additionally, we may assume unknown liabilities of the acquired entity. Although we have endeavored to structure these transactions to minimize exposure to unassumed liabilities, it is possible that under common law and certain statutes, creditors of the entities that sold us these operations could attempt to assert that we have successor liability for obligations of the sellers. Even if any such claim is asserted in the future and is ultimately unsuccessful, we could incur substantial fees, expenses and other costs in defending ourselves against it, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may encounter difficulties with our international operations and sales which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recently begun our entry into foreign markets with our acquisition of FlexPlus in the United Kingdom. Our efforts to increase our penetration into this market and other foreign markets are subject to risks inherent to such markets, including the high cost of doing business in such locations. Our efforts may be costly and they may not result in profits, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operation subjects us to many risks inherent to international business activities, including:•Limitations and disruptions resulting from the imposition of government controls;•Changes in regulatory requirements; •Economic or political instability; •Currency fluctuations; •Difficulties in the collection of receivables;•Foreign tax consequences;•Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; and•Difficulties in managing overseas subsidiaries and international operations. We may encounter significant difficulties in connection with operations in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Due to the nature of our business of placing workers in the workplace of other businesses on a temporary or permanent basis, we are subject to a large number of laws and regulations relating to employment. The risks related to engaging in such business include but are not limited to:•claims of discrimination and harassment (including sexual harassment claims); 8Table of Contents•wrongful termination or denial of employment;•violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues;•incorrect classification of employees, including independent contractors;•violations of labor laws;•violations of wage and hour laws;•criminal activity;•claims relating to actions by customers including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets; and •immigration-related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management and could have a materially negative effect on our business. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate, but our insurance may not be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities, and we may not be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Should some or all of these claims arise, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Improper disclosure of sensitive or private information could result in liability and damage our reputation. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about full-time and temporary employees. Additionally, our employees may have access or exposure to customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. We are dependent on the security provisions of vendors who have custodial control of our data. We have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that our security controls over personal and other data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability, additional compliance costs or damage to our reputation in the marketplace. We are dependent on a variety of information technology systems and our investigating the implementation of new company-wide ERP system: any disruptions in our systems could adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our business and prepare accurate and timely financial information.We are dependent on a variety of information technology telecommunications systems, many of which are legacy systems that we acquired in connection with our acquisitions of businesses. The success of our expansion plans depend upon our IT and telecommunications systems. We are currently investigating the implementation and integration of a company-wide ERP management and financial accounting system that will enhance our senior management’s control over daily operating functions. We may not be able to successfully implement these systems in an effective manner. In addition, we may incur significant increases in costs and encounter extensive delays in the implementation and rollout of these systems. If there are technological impediments, unforeseen complications, errors or breakdowns in implementing these systems, our business, financial condition, results of operations or customer perceptions may be adversely affected.Government regulations may significantly increase our costs, result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce our future earnings. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. The cost to comply, and any inability to comply with government regulation could materially harm our business. Increased government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide. Future regulations may also require new or additional benefits be paid to our associates or require us to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services. Any future regulations may materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity because they may make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide employment services. In conducting our business, we are required to pay a number of payroll and related expenses, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and medical insurance, for our personnel. Unemployment insurance premiums paid by employers 9Table of Contentstypically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment. Workers’ compensation costs may increase in the future if states raise benefit levels and expand the amount of allowable claims. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("ACA") and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act jointly (the “Health Care Reform Laws”), both of which were passed in 2010 and are scheduled to take effect through 2015, require most individuals to have health insurance, and new healthcare requirements may further increase the costs associated with employing temporary workers. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015 tax penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Unless modified by regulations or subsequent legislation, providing such additional health insurance benefits to our temporary workers who qualify for coverage under the Health Care Reform Laws, or the payment of tax penalties if such coverage is not offered to workers who qualify, will increase our costs. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our customers to cover these costs, such increases in costs could materially harm our business. Our business is subject to government reviews, investigations and inquiries.We are directly and indirectly subject to various federal state and local rules, regulations and orders applicable to our business. From time to time, we are also subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business practices. These inquiries and investigations are costly and consume internal resources. Violation of applicable government rules and regulations could result in civil liability or in cancellation or suspension of existing contracts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on obtaining workers' compensation insurance coverage at commercially reasonable terms through TS Employment; unexpected changes in claim trends on our workers’ compensation and benefit plans may negatively impact our financial condition. Although we are insured through TS Employment for workers’ compensation and medical benefit claims, our costs could be affected by unexpected changes in claim trends, which include the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation that could result in costs that are significantly higher. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in claims-related liabilities. The loss of our workers' compensation insurance coverage would prevent us from doing business in the majority of our markets. Further, we cannot be certain that TS Employment will continue to be able to offer us compensation insurance coverage on reasonable terms or that its current and former insurance carriers will be able to pay claims we make under such policies. We bear the risk of loss of major clients, nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy is focused on serving large corporate customers. While our strategy is intended to enable us to increase our revenues and earnings from our major corporate customers, the strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. If a large client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we are obligated to pay the agreed-upon fees to TS Employment for providing professional employment services (which include payroll services, administration of employee benefits, workers’ compensation insurance coverage and accounts receivable collection services) whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. Given the difficult economic environment, there is an increased risk of clients failing to pay or delaying payment, although we are not currently experiencing significant levels of these occurrences. A significant increase in uncollected accounts receivables or customer defaults would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we would have charge backs on existing accounts receivable and invoices on future sales of accounts receivable generated by such clients under our accounts receivable purchase agreements. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent personnel, the demand for our services could decrease, which in turn could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates, as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time, could materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to provide clients with highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. Such individuals are in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers and others. There can be 10Table of Contentsno assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms. Additionally, we may not be able to develop training programs to respond to our clients’ changing needs or retain temporary and permanent personnel who we have trained. We are highly dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity; in the past, we experienced significant management turnover, which may result in operational inefficiencies that could negatively affect our business. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. Since fiscal year 2009 we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management. In fiscal year 2009, we experienced changes in our President and Chief Executive Officer positions. In fiscal year 2010, our Chief Financial Officer resigned. In fiscal year 2011, we appointed a new Chief Financial Officer and President of Sales. In Fiscal Year 2012, our Chief Financial Officer was terminated and we appointed a successor. On October 8, 2012, our Chief Executive Officer resigned and our President assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer as well as Chairman of the Board. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term experience in their new roles within our Company, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, stock price and customer relationships, and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization or who join us through acquisitions in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. We are dependent on a variety of information technology systems and are investigating the implementation of a new company-wide ERP system. Any disruptions in our systems could adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our business and prepare accurate and timely financial information.We are dependent on a variety of information technology and telecommunications systems, many of which are legacy systems that we acquired in connection with our acquisitions of businesses. The success of our expansion plans depend upon our IT and telecommunications systems. We are currently investigating the implementation and integration of a company-wide ERP management and financial accounting system that will enhance our senior management’s control over daily operating functions. We may not be able to successfully implement these systems in an effective manner. In addition, we may incur significant increases in costs and encounter extensive delays in the implementation and roll-out of these systems. If there are technological impediments, unforeseen complications, errors or breakdowns in implementing these systems, our business, financial condition, results of operations or customer perceptions may be adversely affected.We may experience business interruptions that could have an adverse effect on our operations; our management information systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, this could temporarily impact our ability to pay employees, bill customers, service customers, maintain billing and payroll records reliably and pay taxes, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses and financial condition. Our primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by our employees. Although we have disaster recovery plans and adequate levels of insurance in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion. A prolonged outage, such as the one caused by Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 in the New York Metropolitan Area, could seriously impact our ability to service customers or hire temporary workers.Our customer contracts contain termination provisions that could decrease our future revenues and earnings. Most of our customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. Our customers are, therefore, not contractually obligated to continue to do business with us in the future. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. Stockholder ownership interest in our company may be diluted as a result of future financings or additional acquisitions. 11Table of ContentsWe may seek to raise funds from time to time in public or private issuances of equity and such financings may take place in the near future or over the longer term. Sales of our securities offered through future equity offerings may result in substantial dilution to the interests of our current shareholders. The sale of a substantial number of securities to investors, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. In addition, we have issued shares of our common stock for various acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future, which may also result in substantial dilution to the interests of our current shareholders. We cannot assure you that our common stock will be remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market.As a result of the delay in filing our annual report on Form 10-K for the 2013 fiscal year and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2014 with the SEC, we were unable to comply with the listing standards of NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. As a result, NASDAQ may remove our stock from listing on the National Capital Market. While we have submitted a plan of compliance with NASDAQ with respect to our regaining compliance with the NASDAQ listing standards, we cannot assure you that NASDAQ will provide us with an exception that will allow us to regain compliance prior to October 20, 2014, or that we will be successful in our efforts to regain compliance. If we are removed from listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock in an expeditious manner or at all. Even if our common stock is re-listed, unless we are able to timely comply with our SEC reporting obligations in the future, our common stock may again be de-listed. If we are de-listed and cannot re-list our common stock or if it is subsequently de-listed again in the future, the price of our common stock will likely be adversely affected and there may be a decrease in the liquidity of our common stock.Our stock price could be volatile and, as a result, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for our common stock.Our stock price has in the past, and could in the future, fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including those factors previously discussed and the following, many of which are beyond our control:•the identification of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting;•fluctuations in our results of operations;•loss of our listing on a national market for our common stock;•loss of one or more key customers;•strategic moves by our competitors, such as product or service announcements or acquisitions;•regulatory developments;•litigation;•general economic conditions, such as a recession;•general market conditions; and•other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to our performance.The stock market has experienced, and may in the future experience, volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.