ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have significant working capital requirements but have historically experienced negative working capital balances. If we experience such negative working capital balances in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business and pay expenses relating to the employment of temporary employees. Temporary personnel are generally paid on a weekly basis while payments from customers are generally received 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary personnel prior to receiving payment from customers. We finance our operations primarily through sales of our receivables to financial institutions with recourse, issuances of debt, including debt issued to related parties, and through cash generated by our operating activities. We have, in the past, been required to manage our cash aggressively to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital requirements and to service debt. Such steps included working to improve collections and adjusting the timing of cash expenditures, reducing operating expenses where feasible, and seeking to generate cash from a variety of other sources. There is no assurance that we will generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to meet our working capital requirements and pay our debt as it becomes due in the future due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the staffing industry and other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we are unable to do so, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would consider taking a variety of actions, including attempting to reduce fixed costs (for example, further reducing the size of our administrative work force), curtailing or reducing planned capital additions, raising additional equity, borrowing additional funds, refinancing existing indebtedness or taking other actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully take any of these actions, including adjusting expenses sufficiently or in a timely manner, or raising additional equity, increasing borrowings or completing a refinancing on any terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Our inability to take these actions as and when necessary would materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities, and as of September 30, 2011 and September 30, 2010, we had negative working capital balances of $10,147,000 and $10,021,000, respectively. Any increase or sustained negative cash flows would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We are heavily reliant on accounts receivable sales agreements to fund working capital requirements and any termination of such agreements may adversely affect our business. We fund, in part, our working capital requirements with the proceeds from accounts receivable sales agreements. CRD, Insurance Overload, Diamond Staffing and TS Staffing are parties to accounts receivable sales agreements with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”), pursuant to which, the maximum amount of accounts receivable that can be sold to Wells Fargo in the aggregate is $50 million. Accountabilities and ICG Inc. entered into similar trade accounts receivable sales agreements with Amerisource Funding, Inc. (“Amerisource”) on June 13, 2011 and October 18, 2011, respectively. The maximum borrowing amount under the Accountabilities and ICG Inc. agreements with Amerisource is $6 million and $4.5 million, respectively. 5 Each of these facilities, subject to exceptions, advances 90% of the assigned receivables’ value upon sale, and 10% upon final collection. As collections reduce previously sold receivables, we may replenish these with new receivables. The risk of bad debt losses on accounts receivables sold is retained by us and receivables sold which become greater than 90 days old (or 150 days old if the receivable is for medical reimbursement for such accounts with Wells Fargo) can be charged back to us by Wells Fargo or Amerisource. Any such increase in accounts receivables older than 90 days (or 150 days if the receivable is for medical reimbursement) and charged back would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes and could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our accounts receivable sale agreements with Wells Fargo and Amerisource may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events of default or at any time within their broad discretion. In addition, our majority shareholder and several of his affiliated entities guarantee our obligations under these accounts receivable sale agreements and may terminate such guarantees at any time, which would permit the termination of such agreements by Wells Fargo or Amerisource, as applicable. In the event of any such termination, we may be unable to finance our operations, and our operations and working capital could be negatively impacted. In addition, we may be unable to secure alternative arrangements, or any such alternative arrangements may include terms and conditions less favorable to us than under our current accounts receivable sale agreements. Finding such alternative arrangements may be difficult given the current economic climate and the reduction in the number of entities willing to provide this type of financing. This could adversely affect our ability to secure sufficient working capital to operate our business and to pay expenses. In addition, as a result of a continuing guarantee by each of CRD, Insurance Overload, Diamond Staffing and ourselves, a default under one accounts receivable sale agreement by one of our operating subsidiaries could create financial difficulty for us and the non-defaulting operating subsidiaries. We have historically been, and may continue to be, heavily reliant upon financing from related parties, which presents potential conflicts of interest that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have historically obtained financing from related parties, including major shareholders, directors and officers, in the form of debt, debt guarantees and issuances of equity securities, to finance working capital growth and acquisitions. These related parties have the ability to exercise significant control over our financing decisions, which may present conflicts of interest regarding the choice of parties from whom we obtain financing, as well as the terms of financing. No assurance can be given that the terms of financing transactions with related parties are or will be as favorable as those that could be obtained in arms’ length negotiations with third parties. Our principal stockholder, whose affiliated entities are engaged in multiple transactions with us, beneficially owned, together with its affiliated entities and persons, approximately 87.1% of our outstanding shares of Stock as of September 30, 2011, and his interests may conflict with our interests and those of our other shareholders. TSE and its affiliated persons and entities owned approximately 87.1% of our outstanding shares of Stock as of September 30, 2011. TSE is wholly-owned by Robert Cassera, a member of the Board. Transactions between us and affiliates of TSE include the guarantee of our subsidiaries’ obligations under the accounts receivable agreements with Wells Fargo and Amerisource, the provision of professional employer services to our subsidiaries, the exchange of our indebtedness for shares of Stock and the sales of Tri-Overload and TS Staffing to us. The interests of TSE and its affiliates could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of such ownership, TSE and its affiliates have the ability to cause the election of all of the members of the Board, appoint new management and approve actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including amending our certificate of incorporation and merging the Company with or into another entity or selling all or substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by TSE and its affiliates will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. In addition, certain employees of TSE hold management positions in the Company, including Jay Schecter, our Chief Executive Officer, and John Messina, our President, both of whom are also compensated by TSE and receive no salary or bonus compensation directly from us. We do not have any policies or procedures in places that address potential conflicts of interest arising from Mr. Schecter and Mr. Messina’s employment with TSE and their management responsibilities with us because we do not believe that such a conflict is a material risk given that TSE and the Company are engaged in different businesses. 6 Additionally, if TSE’s affiliates, TS Employment, Inc. (“TS Employment”) and TSE-PEO, Inc. (“TSE-PEO”), were to cease providing us with professional employer services (which include payroll related administrative services), we may not be able to secure a comparable provider of such services at agreeable rates. Should we be unsuccessful at finding a comparable provider, we may not be able to secure required workers’ compensation insurance on affordable terms. The failure to obtain a comparable provider of workers’ compensation insurance at affordable rates would possibly require significant capital requirements that are not currently available. In addition, we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients, and this would reduce our profit margins. If we are unable to execute our acquisitions or investments strategy for growing our business, our competitiveness within the industry may suffer, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have supplemented our internal growth through acquisitions, including the ICG Acquisition in December 2010, the Tri-Diamond Acquisition in January 2011, the Cameo Acquisition in April 2011 and the TS Staffing Acquisition in November 2011. In the future, we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions, investments or joint ventures. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many risks, including: ● We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; ● We may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or investments or accurately estimate their financial effect on our business; ● Future acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may require us to issue additional shares of Stock or debt, spend significant cash amounts and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; ● We may have trouble integrating acquired businesses and retaining its personnel, including in connection with our more recent acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; ● Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures may disrupt business and distract management from its other responsibilities; and ● If our acquisitions or investments fail, our business could be harmed. Completing future acquisitions may be limited by our ability to negotiate purchase terms and/or obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, given our current working capital deficit, as discussed above, and our current inability to finance such acquisitions through current cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such acceptable purchase or financing terms. Acquisitions of additional companies could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause our shareholders to have their equity in the Company diluted. From time to time, we may evaluate or complete acquisitions to expand our service offerings, broaden our customer base or grow our geographic presence. The acquisition and subsequent integration of a business into our corporate structure could, among other things, divert management’s attention away from our existing operations, result in a loss of key personnel or customers of the acquired business or result in the assumption of the unknown liabilities of the acquired entity. If the acquisition of a business involves a significant cash expenditure, debt incurrence or integration expense, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operation and cash flows. Furthermore, in the event that we consummate an acquisition or obtain additional capital through the sale of debt or equity to finance an acquisition, shareholders may experience dilution in their equity. 7 We may be subject to successor liability as a result of acquisitions we have made, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The growth of our business has been partially a result of acquisitions we have made. Although we have endeavored to structure these transactions to minimize exposure to unassumed liabilities, it is possible that under common law and certain statutes, creditors of the entities that sold us these operations could attempt to assert that we have successor liability for obligations of the sellers. Even if any such claim is asserted and is unsuccessful (which management believes would be the case), we could incur substantial fees, expenses and other costs in defending ourselves against it, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the nature of our business of placing workers in the workplace of other businesses on a temporary or permanent basis, we are subject to a large number of laws and regulations relating to employment. The risks related to engaging in such business include but are not limited to: ● claims of discrimination and harassment (including sexual harassment claims); ● wrongful termination or denial of employment; ● violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues; ● incorrect classification of employees, including independent contractors; ● violations of wage and hour laws; ● criminal activity; ● claims relating to actions by customers including property damage and personal injury, misuse of proprietary information and misappropriation of assets; and ● immigration related claims. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management and could have a materially negative effect on our business. In some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against some or all of these types of liabilities. We have policies and guidelines in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks and have purchased insurance policies against certain risks in amounts that we currently believe to be adequate, but our insurance may not be sufficient in amount or scope to cover these types of liabilities, and we may not be able to secure insurance coverage for such risks on affordable terms. Should some or all of these claims arise, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation may significantly increase our costs, including payroll-related costs and unemployment and healthcare taxes, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In conducting our business, we are required to pay a number of payroll and related expenses, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and medical insurance, for our personnel. Unemployment insurance premiums paid by employers typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment. Workers’ compensation costs may increase in the future if states raise benefit levels and expand the amount of allowable claims. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, both of which were passed in 2010, require that we provide healthcare coverage to our temporary employees, and new healthcare requirements may further increase the costs associated with employing temporary workers. Although we attempt to recover such costs through the rates we charge our customers, there is no assurance that we will be able to pass on all cost increases to our customers. 8 Unexpected changes in claim trends on our workers’ compensation and benefit plans may negatively impact our financial condition. Although we are insured through TS Employment for workers’ compensation and medical benefit claims, our costs could be affected by unexpected changes in claim trends, which include the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation that could result in costs that are significantly higher. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in claims-related liabilities. We bear the risk of nonpayment from our clients and the possible effects of bankruptcy filings by clients, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a client experiences financial difficulty, or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations as they become due, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. TS Employment and TSE-PEO provide us with professional employment services, which include payroll services, administration of employee benefits, workers’ compensation insurance coverage and accounts receivable collection services. For work performed prior to the termination of a client agreement, we are obligated to pay the agreed-upon fees to TS Employment and TSE-PEO for providing such services, whether or not our client pays us on a timely basis, or at all. Given the difficult economic environment, there is an increased risk of clients failing to pay or delaying payment, although we are not currently experiencing significant levels of these occurrences. A significant increase in uncollected accounts receivables or customer defaults would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we would have charge backs on existing accounts receivable and invoices on future sales of accounts receivable generated by such clients under our accounts receivable purchase agreements. Due to the highly competitive nature of and the low barriers of entry to the temporary staffing industry, we may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. We operate in the highly competitive temporary staffing industry, which has low barriers of entry. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, greater financial resources and larger staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular industries or markets. We expect that the level of competition will remain high. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to customers. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our existing business and future prospects. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified temporary and permanent personnel, the demand for our services could decrease, which in turn could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to identify, recruit, train and place candidates, as well as retain qualified temporary employees over a long period of time, could materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to provide clients with highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. Such individuals are in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Consequently, we must continuously evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our customers and others. There can be no assurance that qualified candidates will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers and on acceptable terms. Additionally, we may not be able to develop training programs to respond to our clients’ changing needs or retain temporary and permanent personnel who we have trained. In the past, we experienced significant management turnover, which may result in operational inefficiencies that could negatively affect our business. During fiscal years 2009 and 2010, we experienced significant turnover in our senior management. In fiscal year 2009, we experienced changes in our President and Chief Executive Officer positions. In fiscal year 2010, our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance resigned and we appointed a new Chief Financial Officer and President of Sales. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term history with us, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, stock price and customer relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization or who join us through acquisitions in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. We did not experience any significant turnover in our senior management in 2011 and do not anticipate any such turnover in the foreseeable future, but should any such significant changes occur, we would be exposed to all of the potentially detrimental effects to our business described above. 9 We may experience business interruptions that could have an adverse effect on our operations. We could be negatively affected by natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, hardware or software malfunctions and break-downs, computer viruses or similar events. Although we have disaster recovery plans in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, this could temporarily impact our ability to pay employees, bill customers, service customers, maintain billing and payroll records reliably and pay taxes, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses and financial condition. A prolonged outage could seriously impact our ability to service customers or hire temporary workers and could seriously threaten the Company. Our Stock is a thinly traded over-the-counter security that is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. We cannot give assurance that our Stock will become more liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. Our Stock is currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”). Trading in stock quoted on the OTCBB is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading price due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our Stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTCBB is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTCBB is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on other stock exchanges such as the NASDAQ Stock Market, New York Stock Exchange or American Stock Exchange. Accordingly, our shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of their shares. We may not be able to meet the listing standards of any stock exchange or be able to maintain any such listing. Such exchanges require companies to meet certain initial listing criteria, including certain minimum bid prices per share. We may not be able to achieve or maintain such minimum bid prices or may be required to effect a reverse stock split to achieve such minimum bid prices. Because our Stock is quoted on the OTCBB, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our Stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such Stock or a lack of market makers to support the Stock price. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our Stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our Stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and for investors to dispose of their shares of our Stock. Our Stock is a penny stock. Trading of our Stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and the FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our Stock. Our Stock is a penny stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined in the Rule) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The term accredited investor refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage broker-dealer and investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our Stock. 10 Stockholders may experience future dilution in ownership due to the conversion of existing convertible debt securities into shares of our Stock, the exercise of outstanding warrants or future equity issuances. As of September 30, 2011, we have outstanding convertible debt securities that may be converted into 250,000 shares of Stock, and outstanding warrants to acquire 56,000 shares of our Stock. We are also in discussions to obtain further financing, which may include the issuance of additional. We may issue additional shares of Stock to finance acquisitions. Additional issuances of Stock could subject our stockholders to dilution, depending on the prices at which the shares are issued. Our customer contracts contain termination provisions that could decrease our future revenues and earnings. Most of our customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty. Our customers are, therefore, not contractually obligated to continue to do business with us in the future. This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 