ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this Annual Report that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following events described in these risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our sales are influenced by general economic cycles. A prolonged period of depressed consumer spending would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Apparel is a cyclical industry that is dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchase of apparel generally declines during recessionary periods when disposable income is low. Our customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, increases in energy costs or interest rates, acts of war, acts of nature or terrorist or political events that diminish consumer spending and confidence in any of the regions in which we compete, could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We currently sell to customers in the U.S., the EU and Japan. Accordingly, economic conditions and consumer spending patterns in these regions could affect our sales, and an economic down turn in one or more of these regions could have an adverse effect on our business. The economic downturn in the latter part of 2008 has resulted in the shortening of production cycles, i.e. from the placement of orders by customers to the production of the finished products. As a result, we had more pressure in our production cycle and our gross margin decreased. 21 Intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry could reduce our sales and prices. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other apparel manufacturers both in China and other countries. Some of these competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may be able to adapt to changes in consumer preferences or retail requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them if we cannot continue enhancing our marketing and management strategies, quality and value or responding appropriately to consumers needs. The success of our business depends upon our ability to offer innovative and upgraded products at attractive price points. The worldwide apparel industry is characterized by constant product innovation due to changing consumer preferences and by the rapid replication of new products by competitors. As a result, our success depends in large part on our ability to continuously and rapidly respond to customer requirements for innovative and stylish products at a competitive pace, intensity, and price. Failure on our part to regularly and rapidly respond to customer requirements could adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customers or to acquire new customers which would limit our sales growth. The worldwide apparel industry is subject to ongoing pricing pressure. The apparel market is characterized by low barriers to entry for both suppliers and marketers, global sourcing through suppliers located throughout the world, trade liberalization, continuing movement of product sourcing to lower cost countries, ongoing emergence of new competitors with widely varying strategies and resources, and an increasing focus on apparel in the mass merchant channel of distribution. These factors contribute to ongoing pricing pressure throughout the supply chain. This pressure has and may continue to: · require us to reduce wholesale prices on existing products; · result in reduced gross margins across our product lines; · increase pressure on us to further reduce our production costs and our operating expenses. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Fluctuation in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. We purchase raw materials directly from local fabric and accessory suppliers. We may also import specialty fabrics to meet specific customer requirements. We also purchase finished goods from other contract manufacturers. The prices we charge for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials used to produce them. The price, availability and quality of our raw materials may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather patterns, supply conditions, transportation costs, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Any raw material price increases could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. 22 As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we did not rely on any raw material supplier which exceeds 10% of all of our total raw material purchases. For the wholesales business, during 2008 and 2007 we relied on one manufacturer for 21% and 12% of purchased finished goods. For the retail business, during 2008 we relied on two manufacturers for 29% of purchased finished goods. We do not have any long-term written agreements with any of these suppliers and do not anticipate entering into any such agreements in the near future. However, we always execute a written agreement for each order placed with our suppliers. We do not believe that loss on any of these suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain finished goods or raw materials essential to our business because we believe we can locate other suppliers in a timely manner. Risks Relating to Our Business Our wholesale business depends on some key customers for a significant portion of our sales. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s performance or financial position could harm our business and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our top five largest customers represented approximately 52% of our total net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our five largest customers represented approximately 56% of our total net sales. The garment manufacturing industry has experienced substantial consolidation in recent years, which has resulted in increased customer leverage over suppliers, greater exposure for suppliers to credit risk and an increased emphasis by customers on inventory management and productivity. A decision by a major customer, whether motivated by competitive considerations, strategic shifts, financial requirements or difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, to decrease its purchases from us or to change its manner of doing business with us, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, while we have long-standing customer relationships, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated by either party at any time. We do not believe that there is any material risk of loss of any of these customers during the next 12 months. We also believe that the unexpected loss of these customers could have material adverse effect on our earnings or financial condition. While we believe that we could replace these customers within 12 months, the loss of which will not have material adverse effect on our financial condition in the long term. None of our affiliates are officers, directors, or material shareholders of any of these customers. 23 Our business relies heavily on our ability to identify changes in fashion trend. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes by offering appropriate products. Failure to effectively follow the changing fashion trend will lead to higher seasonal inventory levels. Our continuous ability to respond to the changing customer demands constitutes a material risk to the success of our retail success. For our wholesale business, if we could not swiftly respond to the changing fashion trend, the sample we designed for the clients may not be accepted or the products based on our design may be put into inventory and thus have a negative impact on the amount of order the client may place with us. Our ability to attract customers to the stores heavily depends on their location. Our flagship stores and the store-within-a-stores are selectively located in what we believe to be prominent locations or popular department stores to generate customer traffic. The availability and/or cost of appropriate locations for the existing or future stores may fluctuate for reasons beyond our control. If we are unable to secure these locations or to renew store leases on acceptable terms, we may not continue to attract the amount of customers, which will have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We may not be successful in expanding our LA GO GO retail business by opening profitable new stores. Our future growth requires our continuous increase of new flagship stores and stores-within-a-store in selected cities, improve our operating capabilities, and retain and hire qualified sales personnel in these stores. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, nor any assurance that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores. If our stores fail to achieve acceptable revenue, we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. We depend on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of such personnel. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our management team. The loss of services of one or more members of this team, each of whom have substantial experience in the garment industry, could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified management or if any member of our management leaves, such departure could have an adverse effect on our operations. In particular, we believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of our CEO and Chairman of the Board, Mr. Edward Yihua Kang. Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing areas. In addition, if we experience material growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented design and marketing personnel in the apparel industry is intensely competitive, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, our growth will be hampered and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 24 If we fail to protect our trademark and maintain the value of our LA GO GO brand, our retail sales are likely to decline. We intend to vigorously protect our trademark against infringement, but we may not be successful in doing so. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our trademark would diminish the value of our brand, which could reduce demand for our products or the prices at which we can sell our products. The success of our retail operation significantly depends on the value and image of the LAＧＯGO brand. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain and promote the LA GO GO brand by successful marketing. Failure to maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems may have an adverse effect on our operation. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations, and we regularly evaluate these systems against our current and expected requirements. Although we have no current plans to implement modifications or upgrades to our systems, we will eventually be required to make changes to legacy systems and acquire new systems with new functionality. We are considering additional investments in updating our ERP system to help us improve our internal control system and to meet compliance requirements under Section 404. We are also continuing to develop and update our internal information systems on a timely basis to meet our business expansion needs. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We may engage in future acquisitions and strategic investments that dilute the ownership percentage of our shareholders and require the use of cash, incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy or invest in other businesses or technologies that we believe would enhance our manufacturing capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy or invest in other businesses in the future, this may require the use of cash, or we may incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy or invest in other businesses or technologies that we believe would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy or invest in other businesses, products or technologies in the future, we could: · incur significant unplanned expenses and personnel costs; · issue stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; · use cash, which may result in a reduction of our liquidity; · incur debt; assume liabilities; and · spend resources on unconsummated transactions. 25 We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and strategic investments, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We may in the future acquire or make strategic investments in additional companies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these or any other acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: · unsuccessfully integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products over geographically disparate locations; · unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · incurrence of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; and · potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization; If we are not be able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire, or to realize expected benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. International political instability and concerns about other international crises may increase our cost of doing business and disrupt our business. International political instability may halt or hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the EU, the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, can suddenly increase international tensions. Increases in energy prices will also impact our costs and could harm our operating results. In addition, concerns about other international crises, such as the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”), avian influenza, or bird flu, and West Nile viruses, may have an adverse effect on the world economy and could adversely affect our business operations or the operations of our OEM partners, contract manufacturer and suppliers. This political instability and concerns about other international crises may, for example: · negatively affect the reliability and cost of transportation; · negatively affect the desire and ability of our employees and customers to travel; · adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates; · require us to take extra security precautions for our operations; and · furthermore, to the extent that air or sea transportation is delayed or disrupted, our operations may be disrupted, particularly if shipments of our products are delayed. 26 Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations and the operations of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. In the event of a major natural disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and loss of life. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects us or our suppliers or customers, shipments could be delayed and our business and financial results could be harmed. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Because our assets are located overseas, shareholders may not receive distributions that they would otherwise be entitled to if we were declared bankrupt or insolvent. Our assets are, for the most part, located in the PRC. Because our assets are located overseas, our assets may be outside of the jurisdiction of U.S. courts if we are the subject of an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding. As a result, if we declared bankruptcy or insolvency, our shareholders may not receive the distributions on liquidation that they would otherwise be entitled to if our assets were to be located within the U.S., under U.S. bankruptcy law. Export quotas imposed by the WTO could negatively affect our business and operations, particularly if the Chinese government changes its allocation of such quotas to us. Pursuant to a World Trade Organization (“WTO”) agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the United States and other WTO member countries agreed to remove quotas applicable to textiles. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the U.S. took action in May 2005, and imposed safeguard quotas on seven categories of goods, including certain classes of apparel products, arousing strong objection from China. On June 10, 2005, in response to the surge of Chinese imports into the EU, the EU Commission signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“EU MOU”) with China in which ten categories of textiles and apparel are subject to restraints. Additionally, on November 8, 2005, the U.S. and China entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“US MOU”) in which 21 categories of textiles and apparel are subject to restraints. Although certain of our apparel products fall within the categories subject to the safeguards in the U.S. and the EU, which could adversely affect our ability to export and sell these products, the imposition of quotas in 2005 did not have a material effect on our net sales, although it did impact our gross margin. There can be no assurance that additional trade restrictions will not be imposed on the exportation of our products in the future. Such actions could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and may adversely affect our results of operations. 27 Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. All of our business operations are currently conducted in the PRC, under the jurisdiction of the PRC government. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Unprecedented rapid economic growth in China may increase our costs of doing business, and may negatively impact our profit margins and/or profitability. Our business depends in part upon the availability of relatively low-cost labor and materials. Rising wages in China may increase our overall costs of production. In addition, rising raw material costs, due to strong demand and greater scarcity, may increase our overall costs of production. If we are not able to pass these costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices, our profit margins and/or profitability could decline. Fluctuation in the value of Chinese RMB relative to other currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business and/or an investment in our shares. The value of RMB against the U.S. Dollar, the Euro and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. In the last decade, the RMB has been pegged at RMB 8.2765 to one U.S. Dollar. Following the removal of the peg to the U.S. Dollar and pressure from the United States, the People’s Bank of China also announced that the RMB would be pegged to a basket of foreign currencies, rather than being strictly tied to the U.S. Dollar, and would be allowed to float trade within a narrow 0.3% daily band against this basket of currencies. The PRC government has stated that the basket is dominated by the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, Japanese Yen and South Korean Won, with a smaller proportion made up of the British Pound, Thai Baht, Russian Ruble, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Singapore Dollar. There can be no assurance that the relationship between the RMB and these currencies will remain stable over time, especially in light of the significant political pressure on the Chinese government to permit the free flotation of the RMB, which could result in greater and more frequent fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB, the U.S. Dollar, and the Euro. If the RMB were to increase in value against the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, for example, consumers in the U.S., Japan and Europe would experience an increase in the relative prices of goods and services produced by us, which might translate into a decrease in sales. In addition, if the RMB were to decline in value against these other currencies, the financial value of your investment in our shares would also decline. 28 You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because our subsidiaries are incorporated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and a majority of our officers reside outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in Florida, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. The majority of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation doing business entirely within the United States. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our common stock has limited liquidity. Our common stock has been trading on the NYSE Amex (formerly, the American Stock Exchange and NYSE Alternext US LLC) since July 16, 2008, but it is thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies in the same industry. Thinly traded common stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. The high and low bid price of Ever-Glory’s common stock during the past 52 week period ended December 31, 2008 has been US$4.89 and US$0.89 per share respectively. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Our common shares are currently traded, but currently with low volume, based on quotations on the NYSE Amex, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is still relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence trading volume. And even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous trading without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that trading levels will be sustained. 29 FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. We expect to experience volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect shareholders’ investments. The market price for shares of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate based upon a number of factors, including, without limitation, business performance, news announcements or changes in general market conditions. Other factors, in addition to the risks included in this section, that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: · receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations of products; · quality deficiencies in services or products; · international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; · changes in recommendations of securities analysts; · shortfalls in our backlog, sales or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts or projected by us; · government regulations, including stock option accounting and tax regulations; · energy blackouts; · acts of terrorism and war; · widespread illness; · proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; · strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; · rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices; or · earthquakes or other natural disasters in Nanjing or Shanghai, China where a significant portion of our operations are based. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of our common stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 30 To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We presently intend to retain all earnings for our operations. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. Our principal shareholders, which includes our officers and directors, and their affiliated entities own approximately 66% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our Board of Directors will generally be within the control of these shareholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our shareholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal shareholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for shareholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as shareholders will be viewed favorably by all of our shareholders. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Florida law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our amended and restated Articles of Incorporation contain a provision permitting us to eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders to the extent provided by Florida law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. 31 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent material misstatements. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008 based on our assessment. However, should we or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control reporting could result in loss of our investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 