Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Current conditions in the global markets and general economic pressures may adversely affect consumer spending and our business and results of operations. Our performance depends on the impact of economic conditions on levels of consumer spending. As a result of the present weak economic conditions in the United States, Europe and much of the rest of the world, the uncertainty over the duration of such weakness and the prospects for recovery, consumers are continuing to curb discretionary spending, which is having an effect on our business. An extended duration or deterioration in current economic conditions could have a further material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. To operate our business, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is, in part, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. The risk is heightened by the fact that our current operations are in a single market. While additional cash for operations and capital expenditures were provided under the Plan of Reorganization, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to operate our business. These challenges are exacerbated by adverse conditions in the general economy and the tightened credit market. Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Plan of Reorganization, we were required to prepare and file with the Bankruptcy Court projected 13Table of Contentsfinancial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan of Reorganization and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. The projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results may vary from those contemplated by the projections and the variation may be material. Accordingly, such projections should not be relied upon. Our industry is intensely competitive. The gaming industry is highly competitive and is expected to become more competitive in the future. New entrants to the Atlantic City market have announced plans to develop casinos in the future. We also face competition from other forms of legalized gaming, such as state sponsored lotteries, racetracks, off-track wagering and video lottery and video poker terminals. In addition, online gaming, despite its illegality in the United States, is a growing sector in the gaming industry, and various proposals have been made to authorize online gaming in the United States. We are unable to assess the impact that online gaming will have on our operations in the future and there is no assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse. Our success could depend upon the success of our strategic plan and marketing initiatives. Many of our existing competitors in Atlantic City have recently completed significant development projects. We have completed a strategic capital expenditure plan at each of our properties, which included the construction of the Chairman Tower at Trump Taj Mahal. From time to time, capital expenditures, such as room refurbishments, amenity upgrades and new gaming equipment, are necessary to maintain or enhance the competitiveness of our properties. Our ability to successfully compete will also be dependent upon our ability to develop and implement effective marketing campaigns. To the extent we are unable to successfully develop and implement these types of marketing initiatives, we may not be successful in competing in our markets. Gaming is a regulated industry and changes in the law could have a material adverse effect on our operations. See “Business—Regulatory and Licensing.” Gaming in New Jersey is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including the CCC and state and federal taxing, law enforcement and liquor control agencies. We and several of our officers and other qualifiers have received the licenses, permits and authorizations required to operate our properties. In June 2007, the CCC renewed our licenses to operate Trump Taj Mahal, Trump Plaza and Trump Marina until June 2012. Failure to maintain or obtain the requisite casino licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business. If new gaming regulations are adopted in New Jersey, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals have been introduced by the legislature of New Jersey that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operations or other aspects of the gaming industry and our financial performance. Legislation of this type has been enacted in the past and may be enacted in the future. For example, in January 2011, legislation took effect under which the CRDA, a state-appointed authority, is to take charge of Atlantic City's casino and entertainment district. The impact of this plan on us is not yet clear. Pennsylvania, New York and other nearby states have enacted gaming legislation that may harm us, and other states may do so in the future. In July 2004, the Pennsylvania legislature enacted the Race Horse Development and Gaming Act which authorizes the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board to permit a total of up to 61,000 slot machines in up to fourteen different licensed locations in Pennsylvania, seven at racetracks (each with up to 5,000 slot machines), five at casino facilities (two in Philadelphia, one in Pittsburgh and two elsewhere, each with up to 5,000 slot machines) and two at established resorts (each with up to 500 slot machines). Three of the racetrack sites, Pocono Downs, Parx Casino and Chester Downs and two casinos, one in Philadelphia and one in Bethlehem, are located in our market area. Slot machine operations have been operational since late 2006 at the racetracks and since May 2009 at the facility in Bethlehem. Sugarhouse, one of the Philadelphia locations commenced operations in September 2010. In late 2010, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board revoked the license of the other Philadelphia facility due to the incomplete submission of a financing plan and failure to meet certain conditions. That decision is on appeal. In January 2010, table game legislation was signed into Pennsylvania law which allows up to 250 table games at each of the twelve larger authorized casinos and up to 50 table games at each of the remaining two smaller authorized casinos. Pennsylvania table games became operational during July 2010.14Table of Contents As of February 2011, the Philadelphia area locations were operating approximately 13,500 slot machines and 500 table games. Competition from the Pennsylvania area casinos that are currently operational has adversely impacted Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. We believe that the potential opening of additional casinos could further adversely impact Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. Pursuant to legislation enacted in 2001, the Division of the Lottery of the State of New York is authorized to permit the installation of VLTs at various horse racing facilities in New York. As of early 2011, there were eight racetracks operating throughout New York State with a total of approximately 12,500 VLTs. During August 2010, New York Lottery officials announced that they had accepted Genting New York LLC's bid to develop a casino at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, New York. Genting New York expects to commence operations in late summer of 2011 with 2,500 VLTs, with an increase to 4,525 VLTs by the end of 2011. Additionally, at various times there have been discussions about allowing VLTs at the Belmont racetrack. The Aqueduct and Belmont racetrack locations are less than fifteen miles from Manhattan. The 2001 legislation also authorized the Governor of New York to negotiate compacts authorizing the operation of up to six Native American casino facilities. Native American casino facilities typically have a significant operating advantage over our casinos due to lower gaming taxes, allowing those facilities to market more aggressively and to expand or update their facilities at an accelerated rate. These competing Native American facilities could continue to further adversely impact Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. In addition, other states near New Jersey, including Maryland, either have or are currently contemplating gaming legislation. The net effect of gaming facilities in such other states, when operational, on the Atlantic City gaming market, including our properties, cannot be predicted. Since our market is primarily a drive-in market, legalized gaming in one or more states neighboring or within close proximity to New Jersey could have a material adverse effect on the Atlantic City gaming market overall, including our properties. Other enacted legislation, including local anti-smoking regulations, may have an adverse impact on our operations. In 2006, the New Jersey Legislature adopted the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act. The law prohibits the smoking of tobacco in structurally enclosed indoor public places and workplaces in New Jersey, including licensed casino hotels. The law permits smoking within the perimeter of casino and casino simulcasting areas, and permits 20% of hotel guest rooms to be designated as smoking rooms. In 2007, an ordinance in Atlantic City became effective which extended smoking restrictions under the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act. This ordinance mandated that casinos restrict smoking to designated areas of up to 25% of the casino floor. In 2008, Atlantic City’s City Council unanimously approved an amendment to the ordinance, banning smoking entirely on all casino gaming floors and casino simulcasting areas, but allowing smoking in separately exhausted, non-gaming, smoking lounges. However, Atlantic City’s City Council subsequently announced that it would not consider a full smoking ban in casinos until at least the end of 2011, due to, among other things, the weakened economy and increased competition in adjoining states. Bills are pending in the New Jersey Senate and Assembly which, if enacted, would repeal the gaming area exemption from the smoking ban provided for in the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act. This proposed ban on smoking in the casino and casino simulcasting areas could adversely affect the Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. We might not be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures in existing or emerging gaming markets. We would not have the right to use the "Trump" brand in connection with any such additional gaming ventures. We are continuously looking to grow our business and diversify our cash flow by actively pursuing opportunities to capitalize on the Trump brand in connection with our existing properties in Atlantic City, New Jersey. In addition, we expect to explore opportunities to expand our activities and asset base in additional gaming markets. Under the terms of our Trademark License Agreement with the Trump Parties, our right to use the “Trump” brand and related intellectual property is limited to our three existing properties, and accordingly the “Trump” brand and related intellectual property would not be available for our use in connection with any other activities we may undertake in the future. Competition for gaming opportunities that are or are expected to become available in additional jurisdictions is expected to be intense, and many of our known or anticipated competitors for available gaming licenses have greater resources and economies of scale than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures or developing additional gaming facilities.15Table of ContentsThe pending sale of the Trump Marina to Landry's A/C may not be consummated, and consummating the sale of the Trump Marina could have potential risks to the Company.On February 11, 2011, the Company and its subsidiary, Trump Marina Associates, LLC, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Landry's A/C and Landry's. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, at the closing, Landry's A/C will acquire substantially all of the assets of, and will assume certain liabilities related to, the business conducted at Trump Marina. The aggregate purchase price payable for Trump Marina by Landry's A/C is $38 million, subject to a working capital adjustment at closing as provided in the Asset Purchase Agreement. The closing of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including receipt of approvals from New Jersey regulatory authorities and other customary closing conditions. There can be no assurance that the transaction for the sale of Trump Marina will close. In the event the closing does not occur, our recourse against Landry's A/C may be limited to the $5 million deposit currently held in escrow. Furthermore, our cash flow, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if the closing does not occur. In addition, completing the transaction may involve a number of risks, including the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business. If we consummate the pending sale of Trump Marina to Landry's A/C, we will also be in competition with Landry's. Our business is subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risk factors described above, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected by many events that are beyond our control, such as: • capital market conditions that could (i) affect our ability to raise capital and access capital markets and (ii) raise our financing costs in connection with refinancing debt or pursuing other financing alternatives;• war, future acts of terrorism and their impact on capital markets, the economy, consumer behavior and operating expenses;• competition from existing and potential new competitors in Atlantic City and other markets (including online gaming), which is likely to increase over the next several years;• regulatory changes;• state tax law changes that increase our tax liability; and• other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Occurrence of any of these risks could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our parent company, TER, has minimal operations, except for its ownership of TER Holdings and its subsidiaries. TER depends on the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. The ability of TER's subsidiaries to make payments to TER may also be restricted by the CCC.Changes in the cost of electricity and other energy could affect our business. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy. Accordingly, increases in energy costs, may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and may have an adverse effect on our business because we are primarily a drive-in market. Our cash flows from operating activities are seasonal in nature. Spring and summer are traditionally the peak seasons for our properties, while autumn and winter are non-peak seasons. Consequently, in the past, our operating results for the quarters ending in March and December have not been as strong as for the quarters ending in June and September. Excess cash from operations during peak seasons is used, in part, to subsidize operations during non-peak seasons. Performance in non-peak seasons is usually dependent on favorable weather and the long-weekend holiday calendar. In the event that we are unable to generate excess cash in one or more peak seasons, we may not be able to subsidize operations during non-peak seasons, if necessary, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Our principal stockholders have substantial control over us. Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, own approximately 49.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ materially from other stockholders and may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and which may be adverse to the interests of other stockholders. In addition, we have 16Table of Contentselected to opt out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder,” and we will be able to enter into such transactions with our principal stockholders. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. The loss of the services of key members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. The leadership of the key members of our management team is a critical element to our future success. Our executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and any unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect us. We have entered into employment agreements with our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, but we are not protected by key man or similar life insurance covering any of our senior management. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and motivate a sufficient number of talented employees. Competition for such qualified employees can be intense, and recruiting, training, retention and benefit costs place significant demands on our resources. Additionally, the recent downturn in the gaming, travel and leisure sectors has made recruiting executives to the gaming business more difficult. Our inability to attract qualified employees or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on our business. We are a participant in a multiemployer pension plan that has been certified in critical status by the fund's actuary. In connection with our collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and hotel workers union, Local 54/UNITE HERE, we participate in the UNITE HERE National Retirement Fund pension plan (the “Fund”). On March 31, 2010, as a result of the extraordinary decline in the financial markets and downturn in the economy, the Fund was certified in critical status by the Fund's actuary under the federal multiemployer plan funding laws pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “PPA”). In connection with the certification, the Fund's board of trustees adopted a rehabilitation plan effective on April 1, 2010 (the “Rehabilitation Plan”) with the goal of enabling the Fund to emerge from critical status by January 1, 2023. The Rehabilitation Plan provides for certain increases in employer contributions and, in some cases, a reduction in participant benefits. We were required to agree with Local 54/UNITE HERE on the adoption of one of three schedules of future accrual and contribution rates proposed under the Rehabilitation Plan, all of which provided for increased monthly contributions. On May 27, 2010, we agreed upon a schedule with Local 54/UNITE HERE pursuant to which we will begin making increased monthly contributions to the Fund on January 1, 2012. Under applicable federal law, any employer contributing to a multiemployer pension plan that completely ceases participating in the plan while it is underfunded is subject to payment of such employer's assessed share of the aggregate unfunded vested benefits of the plan. In certain circumstances, an employer can also be assessed withdrawal liability for a partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan. The amount of our potential exposure with respect to the Fund depends on, among other things, the nature and timing of any triggering events and the funded status of the Fund at that time. If, in the future, we elect to withdraw from the Fund, additional liabilities would need to be recorded. While it is possible that this would occur in the future, we have not made any decision to incur a partial or complete withdrawal from the Fund. If any of these adverse events were to occur in the future, it could result in a substantial withdrawal liability assessment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our current monthly pension contributions to the Fund are approximately $0.5 million. We also contribute to other multiemployer pension plans. A renewed economic decline could have a significant adverse effect on the financial condition of the Fund, or other funds in which we participate, which may require us to make contributions in addition to those already contemplated. Any such increases in our required contributions could adversely affect our results of operations. 17Table of ContentsWe expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline, and stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they acquired or acquire such shares. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. If a trading market for our common stock were to arise, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: •market conditions in the broader stock market;•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results;•introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;•issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;•investor perceptions of us and the gaming industry;•sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;•additions or departures of key personnel;•regulatory or political developments;•litigation and governmental investigations; and•changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. If a trading market for our common stock were to arise, such trading market will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us and/or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. There is no existing market for our common stock and we do not know if one will develop, so you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. There is no public market for our common stock issued pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of an active trading market or how liquid that market might become. If an active trading market does not develop, our stockholders may have difficulty selling any shares of our common stock that they own. This may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. On March 30, 2011, the Registration Rights Agreement originally entered into on July 16, 2010 was amended to defer our obligation to register the shares of common stock held by the Backstop Parties and certain other holders until April 15, 2012, subject to an earlier request from Backstop Parties holding a majority of the common stock held by the Backstop Parties. In light of this amendment, we intend to withdraw the registration statement on Form S-1 that we filed on August 16, 2010 and we will defer any application to have our common stock traded on a national securities exchange. This will make it less likely that a public market for our common stock will develop in the near future. 18Table of Contents Some provisions of Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (“Certificate of Incorporation”) and our amended and restated bylaws (“Bylaws”) may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for, among other things: • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting;• restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director or fill a vacancy on the board of directors;• our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval;• the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; and• advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock and the agreements governing our credit facilities prohibit our payment of dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, will be the only source of gain on an investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 