ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE OR EXPAND OUR BUSINESS AND SECURE NEW CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE HEALTHCARE AND MEDICAL SERVICES TO CORRECTIONAL AND DETENTION FACILITIES DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS OUTSIDE OUR CONTROL. Our growth is generally dependent upon our ability to obtain new contracts to provide healthcare and medical services to inmates in county correctional and detention facilities. This possible growth depends on a number of factors we cannot control, including crime rates and sentencing patterns in various jurisdictions and acceptance of privatization. The demand for our services could be adversely affected by the relaxation of enforcement efforts, leniency in conviction and sentencing practices or through the decriminalization of certain activities currently proscribed by our criminal laws. For instance, any changes with respect to drugs and controlled substances or illegal immigration could affect the number of persons arrested, convicted and sentenced, thereby potentially reducing demand for correctional facilities to house them, and thus, reduce the number of inmates receiving medical services. Legislation has been proposed in numerous jurisdictions that could lower minimum sentences for some non-violent crimes and make more inmates eligible for early release based on good behavior. Also, sentencing alternatives under consideration could put some offenders on probation with electronic monitoring who would otherwise be incarcerated. Similarly, reductions in crime rates could lead to reductions in arrests, convictions and sentences requiring incarceration at correctional facilities. WE PROVIDE CONTRACTED BUSINESS SERVICES. IN ANY CONTRACT BUSINESS, IT IS POSSIBLE A CONTRACT WILL BE TERMINATED, DEFAULTED UPON OR NOT RENEWED. Our top seven medical service contracts with county detention centers generated approximately sixty-two percent (62%) of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. These same clients generated approximately fifty-two percent (52%) of our gross profit. If a contracted detention facility, particularly one of our primary detention facilities, terminates its contract, which generally may be effective between thirty (30) and ninety (90) days prior to the termination date, our business and financial performance may be seriously harmed. MOST OF OUR CONTRACTS ARE FOR SHORT-TERMS, AND THE RENEWAL OR EXTENSION OPTIONS MAY NOT BE EXERCISED BY THE GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY. Our detention center medical services contracts are typically short-term, ranging from one to three years, with renewal or extension options in favor of the contracting governmental agency. Including extension options, we have several medical service contracts subject to renewal in the next twelve months, which accounted for approximately nine percent (9%) of revenue and seventeen percent (17%) of the gross profit, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot assure you that these or any other contracts will be renewed or that extension options will be exercised. Additionally, the contracting governmental agency typically may terminate a facility contract without cause by giving us adequate written notice. We customarily incur significant development and start-up costs in establishing our services within the new facilities, and the termination or non-renewal of a contract would require an immediate write-off of any unamortized costs associated with the contract, including unamortized costs for service contracts acquired and goodwill, and could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 8 OUR CONTRACTS ARE SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENTAL FUNDING. Our detention center medical services contracts are subject to either annual or bi-annual governmental appropriations. Failure by a governmental agency to receive such appropriations could result in termination of the contract by such agency or a reduction of the fee payable to us. In addition, even if funds are appropriated, delays in payments may occur which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. OUR INABILITY TO OBTAIN REQUIRED PERFORMANCE AND/OR PAYMENT BONDS MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN EXISTING CONTRACTS AND ACQUIRE ADDITIONAL CONTRACTS. In order to expand our business and obtain new facilities' contracts, as well as maintain certain existing contracts, we will need to be able to obtain bonds in certain counties for which we provide our services. In order to obtain such bonds, or renew existing bonds, we are required to fulfill certain financial requirements and standards. To the extent we are unable to fulfill the necessary financial requirements and standards, we may not be able to acquire new facilities' contracts and could lose our existing contracts, all of which could negatively impact our business operations and financial condition. WE ARE UNCERTAIN AS TO OCCUPANCY LEVELS AT CERTAIN FACILITIES WE SERVICE. A small portion of our revenues are generated under detention center medical services contracts that specify an offset for populations under a specified number. Under such a per diem rate structure, a decrease in occupancy levels could cause a decrease in the facilities' needs for medical services, and therefore, could cause a decrease in revenue and profitability, and may have an adverse effect on our overall financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. DISTURBANCES AT FACILITIES WE SERVICE WOULD IMPACT US NEGATIVELY. An escape, riot, epidemic, catastrophic or other disturbance that seriously impacts the health of a large number of inmates at one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As a result of a disturbance, inmates may suffer multiple injuries for which the cost of care may have a temporary, but significant effect on profitability. Approximately eighty-eight percent (88%) of our healthcare services' revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 are operated under caps which provide limits on the cost of exposure; however, multiple events with significant costs may exceed budget targets. The remaining twelve percent (12%) of our correctional healthcare services' revenues from continuing operations contain no limits on our exposure for treatment costs related to catastrophic illnesses or injuries to inmates. Although we attempt to compensate for the increased financial risk when pricing contracts that do not contain catastrophic limits for facilities that have not had any catastrophic illnesses or injuries to inmates that exceeded its insurance coverage in the past, we cannot assure you that we will not experience a catastrophic illness or injury of a patient that exceeds its coverage in the future. The occurrence of severe individual cases outside of those catastrophic limits could render contracts unprofitable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY EXPERIENCE MALPRACTICE LITIGATION AND OTHER LIABILITY SUITS. Our medical services to correctional and detention facilities exposes us to potential third-party claims or litigation by inmates or other persons for adverse outcomes (medical malpractice), as well as suits related to infringement of their 8th and 14th amendment rights (deliberate indifference and civil rights). It is likely that as we grow, we will be exposed to additional healthcare liability issues. We currently maintain medical professional liability insurance to cover potential malpractice losses, in the amounts of $1,000,000 per incident and $5,000,000 in the aggregate, as well as $1,000,000 general liability coverage. Such insurance is expensive, subject to various coverage exclusions and deductibles and may not be obtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A successful claim against us in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business. WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT START-UP AND OPERATING COSTS ON NEW CONTRACTS BEFORE RECEIVING RELATED REVENUES, WHICH MAY IMPACT OUR CASH FLOWS AND NOT BE RECOUPED. When we are awarded a contract to provide medical services to a facility, we may incur significant start-up and operating expenses, including the cost of purchasing equipment and staffing the facility, before we receive any payments under the contract. These expenditures could result in a significant reduction in our cash reserves and may make it more difficult for us to meet other cash obligations. In addition, a contract may be terminated prior to its scheduled expiration and as a result, we may not recover these expenditures or realize any return on our investment. 9 WE UTILIZE THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATORS (“TPA”) AND PROVIDER NETWORKS TO OBTAIN OUT-OF-FACILITY CARE IN VARIOUS MARKETS. SHOULD THOSE NETWORKS BECOME INACCESSIBLE, OUR COSTS FOR PROVIDING THOSE SERVICES WOULD RISE 13% TO 16%. Our current profit margin is, in part, due to our ability to reduce out-of-facility costs that are defined by contracted networks. Our net costs are typically approximately 14% less than the stated charges for these services. It is important to note that healthcare providers for the general public utilize these same programs. It is unlikely the environment will change, causing the return of payments based on healthcare provider's charges without discounts. The trend over the past ten years has been one of deeper discounting against these charges. If the trend reversed or slowed, it would negatively impact our operating margins and could have a material adverse effect on us. CHANGES IN STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS COULD RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS. We are subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. There are numerous healthcare and other laws and regulations that we are required to comply with in the conduct of our business. These laws may be materially changed in the future or new or additional laws or regulations may be adopted with which we will be required to comply. The cost of compliance with current and future applicable laws, rules and regulations may be significant. These state and federal laws and regulations that affect our business and operations include, but are not necessarily limited to: · healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit illegal referral and other payments; · Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and related regulations, which regulate many healthcare plans; · pharmacy laws and regulations; · privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations; · civil liberties protection laws and regulations; · state and national correctional healthcare auditing bodies; · various licensure laws, such as nursing and physician licensing bodies; · drug pricing legislation; and · Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations. We believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business. There are, however, significant uncertainties regarding the application of many of these legal requirements to our business, and there cannot be any assurance that a regulatory agency charged with enforcement of any of these laws or regulations will not interpret them differently or, if there is an enforcement action, that our interpretation would prevail. In addition, there are numerous proposed healthcare laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which could materially affect our ability to conduct business or adversely affect our results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO HIPAA, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. On August 21, 1996, Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). This legislation required the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to adopt national standards for electronic health transactions and the data elements used in such transactions. The Secretary has adopted safeguards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of such health information. Violation of the standards is punishable by fines and, in the case of wrongful disclosure of individually identifiable health information, imprisonment. Failure to comply with HIPAA could have an adverse effect on our business. OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES MAY BE FOUND TO CONSTITUTE ILLEGAL FEE-SPLITTING OR CORPORATE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, WHICH MAY LEAD TO PENALTIES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Many of the states in which we operate have laws that prohibit unlicensed persons or business entities, including corporations, from employing physicians or laws that prohibit certain direct or indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and unlicensed persons or business entities. Possible sanctions for violations of these restrictions include loss of a physician's license, civil and criminal penalties and rescission of business arrangements that may violate these restrictions. These statutes vary from state to state, are often vague, and seldom have been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. We review, on an ongoing basis, the applicable laws in each state in which we operate and review our arrangements with our healthcare providers to ensure that these arrangements comply with all applicable laws. We have no assurance that governmental officials responsible for enforcing these laws will not assert that we, or transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of such laws, or that such laws ultimately will be interpreted by the courts in a manner consistent with our interpretations. 10 GOVERNMENT AGENCIES MAY INVESTIGATE AND AUDIT OUR CONTRACTS AND, IF ANY IMPROPRIETIES ARE FOUND, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REFUND REVENUES WE HAVE RECEIVED, REQUIRED TO FOREGO ANTICIPATED REVENUES, AND BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS. Certain government agencies have the authority to audit and investigate our contracts. As part of that process, government agencies may review our performance of the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For contracts that actually or effectively provide for reimbursement of expenses, if an agency determines we have improperly allocated costs to a specific contract, we may not be reimbursed for those costs, and we could be required to refund the amount of any such costs that have been reimbursed. If a government audit asserts improper or illegal activities by us, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with certain government entities. THERE ARE LARGE COMPETITORS IN THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY THAT COULD CHOOSE TO COMPETE AGAINST US, REDUCING OUR PROFIT MARGINS OR CAUSING US TO LOSE CUSTOMERS. Existing national correctional healthcare contract companies, local and regional contracting companies, hospitals and integrated health systems are our potential competitors. These companies include well-established companies which may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do, such as Prison Health Services, Inc., Correctional Medical Services, Inc. and Wexford Health Sources, Inc. Increased price competition could result in the loss of customers or otherwise reduce our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on us. THERE ARE BARRIERS TO ENTRY INTO THE CORRECTIONAL HEALTHCARE SERVICES MARKET WHICH COULD BE OVERCOME RESULTING IN GREATER COMPETITION. The barriers to entrance to compete for contracts are typically five years experience providing the same services and demonstrated financial stability. It would be possible for an investor to purchase an existing experienced company, add capital and quickly become competitive on a national scale. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS. Our cash flow is subject to the receipt of sufficient funding of, and timely payment by, contracting governmental entities. If the appropriate governmental agency does not receive sufficient appropriations to cover its contractual obligations, it may terminate our contract or delay or reduce payment to us. Any delays in payment, or the termination of a contract, could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition. In addition, as a result of, among other things, recent economic developments, federal, state and local governments have encountered, and may encounter, unusual budgetary constraints. As a result, a number of state and local governments are under pressure to control additional spending or reduce current levels of spending. Accordingly, we may be requested in the future to reduce our existing per diem contract rates or forego prospective increases to those rates. In addition, it may become more difficult to renew our existing contracts on favorable terms or otherwise. OUR INABILITY TO REACT EFFECTIVELY TO CHANGES IN THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including potential national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare reimbursements, and horizontal and vertical consolidation within the healthcare industry. Proposed changes to the U.S. healthcare system may increase governmental involvement in healthcare and ancillary health services, and otherwise change the way payers, networks and providers conduct business. Healthcare organizations may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services that we provide. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the healthcare system that we cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our business. Our inability to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results and business. We cannot predict whether any healthcare reform efforts will be enacted and what effect any such reforms may have on us or our customers. A PROLONGED ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN OR RECESSION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. The current economic slowdown may have a negative effect on our business and financial condition and could also result in inadequate payments under our healthcare services contracts. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding and working capital costs or limit our access to the capital markets, any of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 11 NEGATIVE PUBLICITY ABOUT US OR OUR BUSINESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND ABILITY TO OBTAIN FUTURE BUSINESS. Negative publicity regarding the provision of correctional healthcare services by for-profit companies could adversely affect our results of operations or business. Privatization of healthcare services for correctional facilities may encounter resistance from groups or constituencies that believe that healthcare services to correctional facilities should only be provided by governmental agencies. Negative publicity regarding the privatization of correctional healthcare services or specific alleged actions or inactions of us or other industry participants may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices that further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect its results of operations by: · adversely affecting our ability to market our services; · placing pressure on certain of our clients either to force such clients to change the way they do business with us or sever their relationship with us altogether; · increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate; · increasing our exposure to litigation; or · requiring us to change our services. Moreover, negative publicity relating to us in particular also may adversely affect our ability to renew or maintain existing contracts or to obtain new contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. THE CONTINUED SERVICES AND LEADERSHIP OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT IS CRITICAL TO OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN GROWTH AND ANY LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The future of our business depends, to a significant degree, on the skills and efforts of our senior executives, in particular, Dr. Richard Turner, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Howard Haft, MD, MMM, CPE, our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer. If we lose the services of any of our senior executives, and especially if any of our executives join a competitor or form a competing company, it could result in a setback to our operating plan and our business and financial performance could be seriously harmed. We have executed employment agreements with Dr. Haft and Dr. Turner, effective as of the closing of the Acquisition, which include, except for Dr. Turner's employment agreement, noncompetition clauses that expire three (3) years after termination of employment, or during the period that such employee is an owner of any of our issued and outstanding stock. AS A PUBLIC COMPANY, WE INCUR SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL COSTS AND MAY BE UNABLE TO OPERATE PROFITABLY. As a publicly-traded company, our business is subject to significant additional costs. These costs include, among other things, additional legal and accounting costs incurred as a result of becoming a public company plus the additional compliance, reporting, corporate governance requirements and investor relations activities which this entails. Furthermore, the financial, administrative and managerial structures necessary to operate as a public company or the development of such structures require a significant amount of management's time and other resources including financial resources, which may hinder our ability to operate profitably. OUR REVENUE MARGINS MAY DECREASE DUE TO FIXED REVENUE BASE. Our existing contracts are primarily structured as fixed fee contracts. The costs of inmate healthcare may fluctuate from what we anticipated due to several variables, including increases in inmate population and increased inmate illness. Such additional costs may not be easily passed through under those contracts containing a fixed fee structure, and therefore, we may not always have sufficient revenue to cover such increased costs. As a result, our revenue margins may fall. If our revenue margins decrease more than 1 or 2 percentage points, our ability to perform under our contracts may be limited, which could negatively impact our business operations and financial performance. WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN THE HIRING AND RETENTION OF SKILLED PERSONNEL. The future growth of our business depends on successful hiring and retention of skilled personnel, and we may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to succeed. Qualified personnel are in great demand throughout the healthcare industry, thus it is difficult to predict the availability of qualified personnel or the compensation levels required to hire and retain them. We face stiff competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other healthcare and service providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business, including nurses and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. This scarcity may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. Because a significant percentage of our existing contracts are structured as fixed fee contracts, we have a limited ability to pass along increased labor costs to existing customers. The failure to attract and retain sufficient skilled personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels may limit our ability to perform under our contracts, which could lead to the loss of existing contracts or our ability to gain new contracts, and may impair our ability to operate and expand our business, as well as harm our financial performance. 12 WE MAY EXPERIENCE UNBUDGETED INCREASES IN COSTS RELATED TO THE PROVISION OF HEALTHCARE. Currently, we predict the costs of healthcare based on prior experience and projected increases. The projections for future increases are based on historical trends and expected increases related to the development of new healthcare initiatives, treatments and disease states. For example, recent increases in the use of high cost psychiatric medications have triggered increases in the projected costs of those medications in the bid process. However, mid-cycle increases, such as those associated with the need to use a more expensive antibiotic for a drug resistant infection, or the development of a standard treatment for Hepatitis C, for example, would produce significant cost overruns in pharmacy budgeted expenses. WE ARE SUBJECT TO NECESSARY INSURANCE COSTS. Workers' compensation, employee health, and medical professional and general liability insurance represent significant costs to us. Because we significantly self-insure for workers' compensation, employee health, medical professional and general liability risks, our insurance expense is dependent on claims experience, our ability to control our claims experience, and in the case of workers' compensation and employee health, rising healthcare costs in general. Further, additional terrorist attacks, such as those on September 11, 2001, and concerns over corporate governance and corporate accounting scandals, could make it more difficult and costly to obtain liability and other types of insurance. Unanticipated additional insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, and the failure to obtain or maintain any necessary insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS. We intend to grow through internal expansion and through selective acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage acquired operations or that operations acquired will be profitable or achieve levels of profitability that justify the related investment. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including possible adverse short-term effects on our operating results, diversion of management's attention from existing business, dependence on retaining, hiring and training key personnel, risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. THE LIABILITY OF OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS IS LIMITED. On March 13, 2007, we reincorporated as a Delaware corporation and we provide our officers and directors indemnification to the fullest extent allowed under the Delaware General Corporation Law. We also carry directors and officer's liability insurance. As a result of the foregoing, stockholders may be unable to recover damages against our officers and directors for actions taken by them which constitute negligence, gross negligence or a violation of their fiduciary duties and may otherwise discourage or deter our stockholders from suing our officers or directors even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our stockholders. WE HAVE LIMITED EXPERIENCE ATTEMPTING TO COMPLY WITH PUBLIC COMPANY OBLIGATIONS, INCLUDING SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the registered certified public accounting firm auditing a public company's financial statements must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. The requirement for a report of management, as currently in effect, was included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. The requirement for our auditor to attest on management assessment will apply for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS CAN EXERT CONTROL OVER US AND MAY NOT MAKE DECISIONS THAT FURTHER THE BEST INTERESTS OF ALL STOCKHOLDERS. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) together own a majority of our issued and outstanding common stock. Consequently, these stockholders, if they act individually or together, may exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us and might affect the market price of our common stock, even when a change of control may be in the best interest of all stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements which we would not otherwise consider. 13 OUR ORGANIZATIONAL DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW MAKE IT HARDER FOR US TO BE ACQUIRED WITHOUT THE CONSENT AND COOPERATION OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT. Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current Board of Directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. TRADING IN OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN LIMITED, SO INVESTORS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL AS MANY OF THEIR SHARES AS THEY WANT AT PREVAILING PRICES. Shares of our common stock are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Approximately 14,751 shares were traded on an average daily trading basis for the year ended December 31, 2008. If limited trading in our common stock continues, it may be difficult for investors once and if the securities are registered, to sell the securities acquired by them. Also, the sale of a large block of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading of its securities. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE HIGHLY VOLATILE, WHICH MAY LEAD TO LAWSUITS AGAINST US. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “CMHM.OB”. The quotation of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many companies like ours. Our common stock is thus subject to this volatility. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, announcements of new contracts, cancellations of existing contracts or new acquisitions by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against that company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS MAY IMPOSE CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS ON MARKETABILITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, our common stock, which qualifies as “penny stock”, is subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of investors to sell our securities in the secondary market and the price at which such purchasers can sell any such securities. 14 Stockholders should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · “boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Purchasers of penny stocks may have certain legal remedies available to them in the event the obligations of the broker-dealer from whom the penny stock was purchased violates or fails to comply with the above obligations or in the event that other state or federal securities laws are violated in connection with the purchase and sale of such securities. Such rights include the right to rescind the purchase of such securities and recover the purchase price paid for them. Application of these penny stock regulations to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable because the Company is a Smaller Reporting Company. ITEM 