Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of TER securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We remain highly leveraged and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Although we have consolidated our long-term indebtedness and reduced our debt service obligations through our reorganization, we remain a highly-leveraged company. Our aggregate long-term indebtedness totaled approximately $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2007. TER is a holding company and TER Holdings conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations, including debt service obligations on the Senior Notes and the new secured credit facility we 9 obtained on December 21, 2007 (the “2007 Credit Facility”), substantially depends on our properties’ ability to generate sufficient cash flow. This ability is, however, subject to, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be unforeseeable and/or beyond our control. This risk is highlighted by the fact that all of our current operations are all in one market and any downturn in the Atlantic City market or any region from which we draw patrons may adversely impact our business, operations, results of operations and financial condition. In the event any of these risks materialize, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We need to increase capital expenditures to compete effectively and the terms of our indebtedness restrict our operating flexibility. The gaming industry market is highly competitive and is expected to become more competitive in the future. Many of our existing competitors in Atlantic City have recently completed or announced significant development projects. In addition, new entrants to the Atlantic City market have announced plans to develop casinos in the future. Capital expenditures, such as room refurbishments, amenity upgrades and new gaming equipment, are necessary from time to time to enhance the competitiveness of our properties. While we have formulated and have begun to implement a strategic capital expenditure plan at each of our properties, including the construction of a hotel tower at Trump Taj Mahal which commenced in June 2006, the Senior Notes and the 2007 Credit Facility limit our ability to: • incur additional debt; • raise capital; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • make investments; • sell assets; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • enter into affiliate transactions; or • grant liens; among other things. Should any new projects fail to generate projected cash flows, our operating performance, revenues and earnings may be materially adversely affected. Any failure to comply with any of these obligations could result in an event of default under the Senior Notes and our 2007 Credit Facility which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the Senior Notes and amounts due under our 2007 Credit Facility then outstanding. Our capital improvements are susceptible to delays, cost overages, business interruptions and other uncertainties, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have announced a series of capital improvements for all three of our properties, including the construction of a 782-room hotel tower at Trump Taj Mahal which commenced in June 2006. Such development and capital improvement projects are susceptible to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the following: • market conditions and consumer demand for the completed project; • general construction risks, such as cost overages, plan changes or specification modifications, shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental, engineering or geological problems, work stoppages, fire and other natural disasters, construction scheduling problems and weather interferences; 10 • changes and concessions required by governmental or regulatory authorities; • delays in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, all licenses, permits and authorizations required to complete the project; and • disruption of our existing operations. Any failure or delay to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated revenue, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gaming is a regulated industry and changes in the law could have a material adverse effect on our operations. See “Business—Regulatory and Licensing.”. Gaming in New Jersey is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including the New Jersey Casino Control Commission and state and federal taxing, law enforcement and liquor control agencies. We and several of our officers and other qualifiers have received the licenses, permits and authorizations required to operate our properties. Failure to maintain or obtain the requisite casino licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business. During June 2007, the Casino Control Commission renewed our licenses to operate Trump Taj Mahal, Trump Plaza and Trump Marina until June 2012. If new gaming regulations are adopted in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals have been introduced by the legislature of New Jersey that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operations or other aspects of the gaming industry and our financial performance. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. Pennsylvania and New York have enacted gaming legislation that may harm us, and other states may do so in the future. In 2004, the Pennsylvania legislature enacted the Race Horse Development and Gaming Act which authorizes the Control Board to permit a total of up to 61,000 slot machines in up to fourteen different licensed locations in Pennsylvania, seven at racetracks (each with up to 5,000 slot machines), five at slot parlors (two in Philadelphia, one in Pittsburgh and two elsewhere, each with up to 5,000 slot machines) and two at established resorts (each with up to 500 slot machines). Three of the racetrack sites, Pocono Downs, Philadelphia Park and Chester Downs and three slot parlors, two in Philadelphia and one in Bethlehem, are located in our market area. Slot machine operations commenced in late 2006 at the racetracks and, as of early 2008, approximately 9,000 slot machines were operating at these locations. The two Philadelphia slot parlors continue to experience delays in receiving the necessary approvals to commence construction. When fully operational, the Philadelphia area locations could operate up to 15,000 slot machines. In 2001, the New York Legislature authorized the installation of VLTs at various horse racing facilities in New York. The VLT facility at Yonkers Raceway opened in late 2006 and now operates 5,500 VLTs. The proposed VLT facility at Aqueduct Racetrack could open during the State’s 2009-2010 fiscal year with 4,500 VLTs. These locations are less than fifteen miles from Manhattan. The 2001 legislation also authorized the Governor of New York to negotiate compacts authorizing the operation of up to six Native American casinos in the State including slot machines. Three have now been located in the western part of New York and outside of our primary market area but the remaining three, if approved and developed, are required by law to be located in either Sullivan or Ulster County, adjoining counties, which are approximately 100 miles northwest of Manhattan. Local referenda during June and August 2007 authorized three of West Virginia’s four race tracks to add table games to their state-operated video lottery terminal racino operations. During December 2007, two of those racinos opened a total of 93 table games. 11 In addition, other states near New Jersey, including Maryland, either have or are currently contemplating gaming legislation. The net effect of gaming facilities in such other states, when operational, on the Atlantic City gaming market, including our properties, cannot be predicted. Since our market is primarily a drive-in market, legalized gaming in one or more states neighboring or within close proximity to New Jersey could have a material adverse effect on the Atlantic City gaming market overall, including our properties. Other enacted legislation, including local regulations may have an adverse impact on our operations. On January 9, 2006, the New Jersey Legislature adopted the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act, which was effective on April 15, 2006. The law prohibits the smoking of tobacco in structurally enclosed indoor public places and workplaces in New Jersey, including licensed casino hotels. The law permits smoking within the perimeter of casino and casino simulcasting areas, and permits 20% of hotel guest rooms to be designated as smoking rooms. In February 2007, Atlantic City’s city council adopted an ordinance which extended the smoking ban to casino and casino simulcasting areas effective April 15, 2007. Under the ordinance, casinos may, with certain conditions, permit smoking in up to 25% of these gaming areas and shall, during a phase-in period, construct a separated exhausted enclosure of each such smoking area. In addition, bills are pending in the New Jersey Senate and Assembly which, if enacted, would repeal the gaming area exemption from the smoking ban provided for in the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act. This proposed ban on smoking in the casino and casino simulcasting areas could adversely affect the Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. Limitations on smoking have adversely impacted our operations. Additionally, should we proceed with the construction of the required separately exhausted enclosure of such smoking areas, our funding for such capital expenditures could reduce our ability to fund other capital projects or increase our overall indebtedness. We might not be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures in existing or emerging gaming markets We are continuously looking to grow our business and diversify our cash flow by actively pursuing opportunities to capitalize on the Trump brand and expand our asset base in additional gaming markets. Competition for gaming opportunities that are or are expected to become available in additional jurisdictions is expected to be intense, and many of our known or anticipated competitors for available gaming licenses have greater resources and economies of scale than we do. We can not assure you that we will be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures or developing additional gaming facilities. Our 2007 Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain certain restrictions which could prevent us from developing new gaming facilities. Our business is subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risk factors described above, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected by many events that are beyond our control, such as: • capital market conditions that could (i) affect our ability to raise capital and access capital markets and (ii) raise our financing costs in connection with refinancing debt or pursuing other alternatives; • war, future acts of terrorism and their impact on capital markets, the economy, consumer behavior and operating expenses; • competition from existing and potential new competitors in Atlantic City and other markets (including online gaming), which is likely to increase over the next several years; 12 • regulatory changes; • state tax law changes that increase our tax liability; and • other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Occurrence of any of these risks would materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Changes in the cost of electricity and other energy could affect our business. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy. Accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced recently, may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and may have an adverse effect on our business. Our cash flows from operating activities are seasonal in nature. Spring and summer are traditionally the peak seasons for our properties, while autumn and winter are non-peak seasons. Consequently, in the past, our operating results for the quarters ending in March and December have not been as strong as for the quarters ending in June and September. Excess cash from operations during peak seasons is used, in part, to subsidize operations during non-peak seasons. Performance in non-peak seasons is usually dependent on favorable weather and the long-weekend holiday calendar. In the event that we are unable to generate excess cash in one or more peak seasons, we may not be able to subsidize operations during non-peak seasons, if necessary, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 