Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, before you decide whether to purchase TER securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of TER securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We remain highly leveraged and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Although we have consolidated our long-term indebtedness and significantly reduced our debt service obligations through our reorganization, we remain a highly-leveraged company. Our aggregate long-term indebtedness totaled approximately $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2006. TER is a holding company and TER Holdings conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our 10 Table of Contents debt service obligations, including debt service obligations on the Senior Notes and the Credit Facility, substantially depends on our properties’ ability to generate sufficient cash flow. This ability is, however, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be unforeseeable and/or beyond our control. This risk is highlighted by the fact that all of our current operations are concentrated in one market and any downturn in the Atlantic City market or any region from which we draw patrons may adversely impact our business, operations, results of operations and financial condition. In the event any of these risks materialize, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We need to increase capital expenditures to compete effectively and the terms of our indebtedness restrict our operating flexibility. The gaming industry market is highly competitive and is expected to become more competitive in the future. Many of our existing competitors in Atlantic City have recently completed or announced significant development projects. In addition, new entrants to the Atlantic City market have announced plans to develop casinos in the future. Capital expenditures, such as room refurbishments, amenity upgrades and new gaming equipment, are necessary from time to time to enhance the competitiveness of our properties. While we have formulated and have begun to implement a strategic capital expenditure plan at each of our properties, including the construction of a hotel tower at Trump Taj Mahal which commenced in June 2006, the Senior Notes and the Credit Facility limit our ability to: • incur additional debt; • raise capital; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • make investments; • sell assets; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • enter into affiliate transactions; or • grant liens, among other things. Should any new projects fail to generate projected cash flows, our operating performance, revenues and earnings may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Credit Facility imposes certain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests based on our cash flows and leverage position. These covenants restrict, to a certain degree, our financial and operating flexibility. Any failure to comply with any of these obligations could result in an event of default under the Senior Notes and our Credit Facility which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the Senior Notes and amounts due under our Credit Facility then outstanding. Our capital improvements are susceptible to delays, cost overages, business interruptions and other uncertainties, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have announced a series of capital improvements for all three of our properties, including the construction of a 786-room hotel tower at Trump Taj Mahal which commenced in June 2006. Such development and capital improvement projects are susceptible to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the following: • market conditions and consumer demand for the completed project; • general construction risks, such as cost overages, plan changes or specification modifications, shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental, engineering or 11 Table of Contents geological problems, work stoppages, fire and other natural disasters, construction scheduling problems and weather interferences; • changes and concessions required by governmental or regulatory authorities; • delays in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, all licenses, permits and authorizations required to complete the project; and • disruption of our existing operations. Any failure or delay to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated revenue, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gaming is a regulated industry and changes in the law could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Gaming in New Jersey is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including the New Jersey Casino Control Commission and state and federal taxing, law enforcement and liquor control agencies. We and several of our officers and other qualifiers have received the licenses, permits and authorizations required to operate our properties. Failure to maintain or obtain the requisite casino licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business. The Casino Control Commission consolidated and renewed our licenses to operate Trump Taj Mahal, Trump Plaza and Trump Marina until June 2007. If new gaming regulations are adopted in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals have been introduced by the legislatures of New Jersey that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operations or other aspects of the gaming industry and our financial performance. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. Pennsylvania and New York have enacted gaming legislation that may harm us, and other states may do so in the future. In 2004, the Pennsylvania legislature enacted the Race Horse Development and Gaming Act. It authorizes the operation of slot machines in up to fourteen licensed locations in Pennsylvania, seven at racetracks (each with up to 5,000 slot machines), five at slot parlors (two in Philadelphia, one in Pittsburgh and two elsewhere, each with up to 5,000 slot machines) and two at established resorts (each with up to 500 slot machines). Three of the racetrack sites, Pocono Downs, Philadelphia Park and Chester Downs and three slot parlors, two in Philadelphia and one in Bethlehem, are located in our market area. Operations commenced at three of the five Philadelphia area locations in late 2006 or early 2007. When fully operational, the Philadelphia area locations could operate up to 15,000 slot machines. In 2001, the New York Legislature authorized the installation of VLTs at various horse racing facilities in the State. The VLT facility at Yonkers Raceway opened in late 2006 and the VLT facility at Aqueduct Racetrack is expected to open in 2007. These locations are less than fifteen miles from Manhattan. When fully operational, these facilities are expected to operate 10,000 VLT’s. The 2001 legislation also authorized the Governor of New York to negotiate compacts to allow up to six Native American casinos in the State including slot machines. Three have now been located in the western part of New York and outside of our primary market area but the remaining three, if approved and developed, are required by law to be located in either Sullivan or Ulster County, areas approximately 100 miles northwest of Manhattan. Recently, West Virginia legislature approved a bill which would allow for the addition of table games at West Virginia casinos (which currently only allow slot machines). If approved by the Governor, the bill requires passage of local referenda in the counties which have casinos before table games betting could begin. 12 Table of Contents In addition, other states near New Jersey, including Maryland, either have or are currently contemplating gaming legislation. The net effect of gaming facilities in such other states, when operational, on the Atlantic City gaming market, including our properties, cannot be predicted. Since our market is primarily a drive-in market, legalized gaming in one or more states neighboring or within close proximity to New Jersey could have a material adverse effect on the Atlantic City gaming market overall, including our properties. Other enacted legislation, including local regulations may have an adverse impact on our operations. During February 2007, the Atlantic City Council passed an ordinance limiting smoking in casinos to an area not greater than 25% of the casino floor effective April 2007. This ordinance includes a phase-in period for the completion of the separation of the facility and ventilation systems between the smoking and nonsmoking areas of the casino. Limitations on smoking could adversely impact our operations. Additionally, should we decide to proceed with the physical separation of the casino floor and ventilations systems, our funding for such capital expenditures could reduce our ability to fund other capital projects or increase our overall indebtedness. We might not be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures in existing or emerging gaming markets We are continuously looking to grow our business and diversify our cash flow by actively pursuing opportunities to capitalize on the Trump brand and expand our asset base in additional gaming markets. Competition for gaming opportunities that are or are expected to become available in additional jurisdictions, is expected to be intense, and many of our known or anticipated competitors for available gaming licenses have greater resources and economies of scale than we do. We can not assure you that we will be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures or developing additional gaming facilities. Even if we are successful in gaining entry into any new gaming jurisdiction, our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain certain operating and financial restrictions which would prevent us from developing gaming facilities other than by entering into a joint venture arrangement or other arrangement with one or more third parties, whereby we would co-develop or manage the facility. Our business is subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risk factors described above, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected by many events that are beyond our control, such as: • capital market conditions that could affect our ability to raise capital and access capital markets and raise our financing costs in connection with refinancing debt or pursuing other alternatives; • war, future acts of terrorism and their impact on capital markets, the economy, consumer behavior and operating expenses; • competition from existing and potential new competitors in Atlantic City and other markets (including online gaming), which is likely to increase over the next several years; • regulatory changes; • state tax law changes that increase our tax liability; and • other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Occurrence of any of these risks would materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 