Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Chapter 11 Case. On February 17, 2009, TER and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the “Debtors”) filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code and commenced the Chapter 11 Case. During the Chapter 11 Case, our operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, including, but not limited to, the following: • Difficulties of operating our properties while attempting to reorganize our business in bankruptcy may make it more difficult to maintain and promote our facilities and attract customers to our facilities. • Our vendors and service providers may require stricter terms and conditions. • Substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses. • Adverse affect on our ability to maintain our gaming licenses. • Inability to continue to grow our business through acquisitions and restrictions on our ability to pursue other business strategies. Among other things, the Bankruptcy Code limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, consolidate, merge or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or grant liens. These restrictions may place us at a competitive disadvantage. • Adverse affect on our ability to maintain, expand, develop and remodel our properties. • Transactions by the Debtors outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. • We may not be able to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to actions we may seek to undertake in the Chapter 11 Case. • We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees. In addition, so long as the Chapter 11 Case continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. • We may need to obtain additional financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. There can be no assurance as to our ability to obtain sufficient financing. We are currently financing our operations during our reorganization using cash on hand. We have signed a commitment letter with certain of the holders of Senior Notes to provide a $45 million DIP Facility. Borrowings under the DIP Facility will be conditioned upon confirmation of the Debtors/AHC Plan and Bankruptcy Court approval. If the Debtors/AHC Plan is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, we will receive $100 million in available funds upon emergence to fund our operations and capital expenditures, as well as to repay any borrowings under the DIP Facility. Under the Beal/Icahn Plan, upon a final confirmation order, Icahn Partners would provide us with a $45 million debtor in possession loan. Such debtor in possession loan would, on the effective date, convert to new equity in the reorganized Debtors. In addition, Icahn Partners has agreed to make an equity contribution of $80 million on the effective date in exchange for new equity in the reorganized Debtors. The challenges of obtaining financing are exacerbated by adverse conditions in the general economy and the tightening in the credit markets, making it more difficult for us to obtain financing. • There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Case that are acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the Debtors’ creditors and other parties in interest. • Even assuming a successful emergence from chapter 11, there can be no assurance as to the overall long-term viability of our business. 12 Table of Contents Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code, pre-petition liabilities and post-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before shareholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan of reorganization. It should be noted that under either the Debtors/AHC Plan or the Beal/Icahn Plan, there will be no distribution to stockholders. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Case to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by equity holders and notwithstanding the fact that equity holders do not receive or retain any property on account of their equity interests under the plan of reorganization. Presently, we do not believe that there will be any meaningful recovery, or any recovery at all, for holders of TER Common Stock. Our audited consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. However, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of substantial doubt about the ability of our Company to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things: (1) our ability to generate cash from operations and to maintain adequate cash on hand; (2) the resolution of the uncertainty as to the amount of claims that will be allowed; (3) our ability to confirm a plan of reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code and obtain any debt and equity financing which may be required to emerge from bankruptcy protection; and (4) our ability to achieve profitability. Nasdaq Deslisting. Effective February 26, 2009, Nasdaq delisted TER Common Stock from trading. Negative implications may be associated with the delisting, including potential loss in confidence in our Company by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in TER Common Stock as a result of the delisting. Current conditions in the global markets and general economic pressures may adversely affect consumer spending and our business and results of operations. Our performance depends on the impact of economic conditions on levels of consumer spending. As a result of the present weak economic conditions in the United States, Europe and much of the rest of the world, the uncertainty over the duration of such weakness and the prospects for recovery, consumers are continuing to curb discretionary spending, which is having an effect on our business. An extended duration or deterioration in current economic conditions could have a further material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. To operate our business and ultimately to restructure our capital structure, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is, in part, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. The risk is heightened by the fact that our current operations are in a single market. While additional cash for operations and capital expenditures will be provided under either plan of reorganization, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to operate our business and restructure our business. These challenges are exacerbated by adverse conditions in the general economy and the tightening in the credit market. Our Chapter 11 Case makes it more difficult for us to obtain financing or generate cash. 13 Table of Contents Our industry is intensely competitive. The gaming industry is highly competitive and is expected to become more competitive in the future. New entrants to the Atlantic City market have announced plans to develop casinos in the future. We also face competition from other forms of legalized gaming, such as state sponsored lotteries, racetracks, off-track wagering and video lottery and video poker terminals. In addition, online gaming, despite its illegality in the United States, is a growing sector in the gaming industry. We are unable to assess the impact that online gaming will have on our operations in the future and there is no assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse. The filing of the Chapter 11 Case may have an adverse impact on our ability to compete. Our success could depend upon the success of our strategic capital expenditure plan. Many of our existing competitors in Atlantic City have recently completed significant development projects. We have completed a strategic capital expenditure plan at each of our properties, which included the construction of the Chairman Tower at Trump Taj Mahal. From time to time, capital expenditures, such as room refurbishments, amenity upgrades and new gaming equipment, are necessary to enhance the competitiveness of our properties. Our ability to successfully compete will also be dependent upon our ability to develop and implement effective marketing campaigns. To the extent we are unable to successfully develop and implement these types of marketing initiatives, we may not be successful in competing in our markets. Gaming is a regulated industry and changes in the law could have a material adverse effect on our operations. See “Business—Regulatory and Licensing.” Gaming in New Jersey is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including the New Jersey Casino Control Commission (the “CCC”) and state and federal taxing, law enforcement and liquor control agencies. We and several of our officers and other qualifiers have received the licenses, permits and authorizations required to operate our properties. Failure to maintain or obtain the requisite casino licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business. During June 2007, the CCC renewed our licenses to operate Trump Taj Mahal, Trump Plaza and Trump Marina until June 2012. If new gaming regulations are adopted in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals have been introduced by the legislature of New Jersey that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operations or other aspects of the gaming industry and our financial performance. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. Pennsylvania, New York and other nearby states have enacted gaming legislation that may harm us, and other states may do so in the future. In July 2004, the Pennsylvania legislature enacted the Race Horse Development and Gaming Act which authorizes the Control Board to permit a total of up to 61,000 slot machines in up to fourteen different licensed locations in Pennsylvania, seven at racetracks (each with up to 5,000 slot machines), five at slot parlors (two in Philadelphia, one in Pittsburgh and two elsewhere, each with up to 5,000 slot machines) and two at established resorts (each with up to 500 slot machines). Three of the racetrack sites, Pocono Downs, Parx Casino and Chester Downs and three slot parlors, two in Philadelphia and one in Bethlehem, are located in our market area. Slot machine operations commenced in late 2006 at the racetracks and in May 2009 at the slot parlor in Bethlehem. As of early 2010, approximately 12,000 slot machines were operating at these locations. One of the Philadelphia slot parlors commenced construction in October 2009 and is expected to open in mid-2010 with approximately 1,700 slot machines. In February 2010, Wynn Resorts announced that it had entered into a letter of intent to develop and operate the other Philadelphia facility. The transaction is contingent on approval from Pennsylvania gaming regulators. 14 Table of Contents In January 2010, table game legislation was signed into Pennsylvania law which allows up to 250 table games at each of the twelve larger authorized casinos and up to 50 table games at each of the remaining two smaller authorized casinos. Pennsylvania gaming regulators expect that table games will become operational by mid-2010. In 2001, the New York Legislature authorized the installation of VLTs at various horse racing facilities in New York. The VLT facility at Yonkers Raceway opened in late 2006 and now operates 5,300 VLTs. The State of New York continues to seek bids for a license to operate a new casino at the Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, New York. Additionally, at various times there have been discussions about allowing VLTs at the Belmont racetrack. These locations are less than fifteen miles from Manhattan. The 2001 legislation also authorized the Governor of New York to negotiate compacts authorizing the operation of up to six Native American casino facilities, including slot machines. Three have now been located in the western part of New York and outside of our primary market area but the remaining three, if approved and developed, are required by law to be located in either Sullivan or Ulster County, adjoining counties, which are approximately 100 miles northwest of Manhattan. Competition from the VLT facilities at Aqueduct Racetrack and Yonkers Raceway and from potential Native American casinos as may be authorized and operated in Sullivan or Ulster County could adversely impact Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. In addition, other states near New Jersey, including Maryland, either have or are currently contemplating gaming legislation. The net effect of gaming facilities in such other states, when operational, on the Atlantic City gaming market, including our properties, cannot be predicted. Since our market is primarily a drive-in market, legalized gaming in one or more states neighboring or within close proximity to New Jersey could have a material adverse effect on the Atlantic City gaming market overall, including our properties. Other enacted legislation, including local anti-smoking regulations, may have an adverse impact on our operations. On January 9, 2006, the New Jersey Legislature adopted the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act, which was effective on April 15, 2006. The law prohibits the smoking of tobacco in structurally enclosed indoor public places and workplaces in New Jersey, including licensed casino hotels. The law permits smoking within the perimeter of casino and casino simulcasting areas, and permits 20% of hotel guest rooms to be designated as smoking rooms. On April 15, 2007, an ordinance in Atlantic City became effective which extended smoking restrictions under the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act. This ordinance mandated that casinos restrict smoking to designated areas of up to 25% of the casino floor. During April 2008, Atlantic City’s City Council unanimously approved an amendment to the ordinance, banning smoking entirely on all casino gaming floors and casino simulcasting areas, but allowing smoking in separately exhausted, non-gaming, smoking lounges. The amendment to the ordinance became effective on October 15, 2008, however, on October 27, 2008, Atlantic City’s City Council voted to postpone the full smoking ban for at least one year due to, among other things, the weakened economy and increased competition in adjoining states. The postponement of the full smoking ban became effective on November 16, 2008. In December 2009, Atlantic City’s City Council announced that it would not consider a full smoking ban in casinos until at least the end of 2011. In addition, bills are pending in the New Jersey Senate and Assembly which, if enacted, would repeal the gaming area exemption from the smoking ban provided for in the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act. This proposed ban on smoking in the casino and casino simulcasting areas could adversely affect the Atlantic City casinos, including our casinos. We might not be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures in existing or emerging gaming markets. We are continuously looking to grow our business and diversify our cash flow by actively pursuing opportunities to capitalize on the Trump brand and expand our asset base in additional gaming markets. 15 Table of Contents Competition for gaming opportunities that are or are expected to become available in additional jurisdictions is expected to be intense, and many of our known or anticipated competitors for available gaming licenses have greater resources and economies of scale than we do. We can not assure you that we will be successful in pursuing additional gaming ventures or developing additional gaming facilities. Our business is subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risk factors described above, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected by many events that are beyond our control, such as: • capital market conditions that could (i) affect our ability to raise capital and access capital markets and (ii) raise our financing costs in connection with refinancing debt or pursuing other alternatives; • war, future acts of terrorism and their impact on capital markets, the economy, consumer behavior and operating expenses; • competition from existing and potential new competitors in Atlantic City and other markets (including online gaming), which is likely to increase over the next several years; • regulatory changes; • state tax law changes that increase our tax liability; and • other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the SEC. Occurrence of any of these risks could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Changes in the cost of electricity and other energy could affect our business. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy. Accordingly, increases in energy costs, may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and may have an adverse effect on our business. Our cash flows from operating activities are seasonal in nature. Spring and summer are traditionally the peak seasons for our properties, while autumn and winter are non-peak seasons. Consequently, in the past, our operating results for the quarters ending in March and December have not been as strong as for the quarters ending in June and September. Excess cash from operations during peak seasons is used, in part, to subsidize operations during non-peak seasons. Performance in non-peak seasons is usually dependent on favorable weather and the long-weekend holiday calendar. In the event that we are unable to generate excess cash in one or more peak seasons, we may not be able to subsidize operations during non-peak seasons, if necessary, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 