Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information presented in this report and our other filings with the SEC, in evaluating our business and any investment in Stewart. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In that event, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline materially. Adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity reduce our revenues. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by changes in economic conditions, particularly mortgage interest rates, credit availability, real estate prices and consumer confidence. Our revenues and earnings have fluctuated in the past and we expect them to fluctuate in the future. The demand for our title insurance-related and real estate information services depends in large part on the volume of residential and commercial real estate transactions. The volume of these transactions historically has been influenced by such factors as mortgage interest rates, availability of financing and the overall state of the economy. Typically, when interest rates are increasing or when the economy is experiencing a downturn, real estate activity declines. As a result, the title insurance industry tends to experience decreased revenues and earnings. Increases in interest rates also may have an adverse impact on our bond portfolio and the amount of interest we pay on our floating-rate bank debt. 6 Table of Contents Our revenues and results of operations have been and could continue to be adversely affected as a result of the decline in home prices, real estate activity and the availability of financing alternatives. In addition, continued weakness or further adverse changes in the level of real estate activity could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Our claims experience may require us to increase our provision for title losses or to record additional reserves, either of which would adversely affect our earnings. Estimating future loss payments is difficult, and our assumptions about future losses may prove inaccurate. Provisions for policy losses on policies written within a given year are charged to income in the same year the related premium revenues are recognized. The amounts provided are based on reported claims, historical loss payment experience, title industry averages and the current legal and economic environment. Losses that are higher than anticipated are an indication that total losses for a given policy year may be higher than originally calculated. Changes in the total estimated future loss for prior policy years are recorded in the period in which the estimate changes. Claims are often complex and involve uncertainties as to the dollar amount and timing of individual payments. Claims are often paid many years after a policy is issued. From time-to-time, we experience large losses, including losses from independent agency defalcations, from title policies that have been issued or worsening loss payment experience, any of which may require us to increase our title loss reserves. These events are unpredictable and adversely affect our earnings. Title loss reserves in 2010 increased due to $4.8 million in provisions for strengthening policy loss reserves for policies issued in 2007 and 2008. Title loss reserves in 2009 increased $32.7 million from provisions for strengthening policy loss reserves for policies issued in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The increases in title loss reserves in 2010 and 2009 were related to higher than expected loss payments and incurred loss experience for their respective policy years. The total strengthening charges for policy years 2007 through 2010 aggregated $77.0 million. Competition in the title insurance industry affects our revenues. Competition in the title insurance industry is intense, particularly with respect to price, service and expertise. Larger commercial customers and mortgage originators also look to the size and financial strength of the title insurer. Although we are one of the leading title insurance underwriters based on market share, Fidelity National Financial, Inc. and The First American Corporation each has substantially greater revenues than we do. Their holding companies have significantly greater capital than we do. Although we are not aware of any current initiatives to reduce regulatory barriers to entering our industry, any such reduction could result in new competitors, including financial institutions, entering the title insurance business. Competition among the major title insurance companies and any new entrants could lower our premium and fee revenues. From time-to-time, new entrants enter the marketplace with alternative products to traditional title insurance, although many of these alternative products have been disallowed by title insurance regulators. These alternative products, if permitted by regulators, could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Availability of credit may reduce our liquidity and negatively impact our ability to fund operating losses or initiatives. As a result of our recent operating losses and the current conditions in credit markets, we may not be able to obtain, on acceptable terms, the financing necessary to fund our operations or initiatives. However, we expect that cash flows from operations and cash available from our underwriters, subject to regulatory restrictions, will be sufficient to fund our operations, pay our claims and fund initiatives. To the extent that these funds are not sufficient, we may be required to borrow funds on less favorable terms or seek funding from the equity market, which may be on terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders. 7 Table of Contents A downgrade of our underwriters by rating agencies may reduce our revenues. Ratings are a significant component in determining the competitiveness of insurance companies. Our principal insurance underwriting subsidiary, Guaranty, is currently rated by Demotech, Inc. (A”), Fitch (BBB+), A. M. Best (B++) and Kroll Bond Rating Agency (formerly LACE Financial) (B-). Guaranty has historically been highly rated by the rating agencies that cover us. These ratings are not credit ratings. Instead, the ratings are based on quantitative, and in some cases qualitative, information and reflect the conclusions of the rating agencies with respect to our financial strength, results of operations and ability to pay policyholder claims. Our ratings are subject to continual review by the rating agencies and we cannot be assured that our current ratings will be maintained. If our ratings are downgraded from current levels by the rating agencies, our ability to retain existing customers and develop new customer relationships may be negatively impacted, which could result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive government regulations. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and operating results. Governmental authorities regulate our insurance subsidiaries in the various states and international jurisdictions in which we do business. These regulations generally are intended for the protection of policyholders rather than stockholders. The nature and extent of these regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but typically involve: • approving or setting of insurance premium rates; • standards of solvency and minimum amounts of statutory capital and surplus that must be maintained; • limitations on types and amounts of investments; • establishing reserves, including statutory premium reserves, for losses and loss adjustment expenses; • regulating underwriting and marketing practices; • regulating dividend payments and other transactions among affiliates; • prior approval for the acquisition and control of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • licensing of insurers, agencies and, in certain states, escrow officers; • regulation of reinsurance; • restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured by a single company; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • approval of policy forms; • methods of accounting; and • filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on rate increases or other actions that we might want to take to enhance our operating results. Changes in these regulations may also adversely affect us. In addition, state regulators perform periodic examinations of insurance companies, which could result in increased compliance or litigation expenses. Rapid technological changes in our industry require timely and cost-effective responses. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively use technology to increase productivity. Technological advances occur rapidly in the title insurance industry as industry standards evolve and title insurers introduce new products and services. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to anticipate technological changes and to offer products and services that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. Successful implementation and customer acceptance of our technology-based services will be crucial to our future profitability. There is a risk that the introduction of new products and services, or advances in technology, could reduce the usefulness of our products and render them obsolete. 8 Table of Contents We rely on dividends from our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. We are a holding company and our principal assets are our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. Consequently, we may depend on receiving sufficient dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations and to pay our operating expenses and dividends to our stockholders. The insurance statutes and regulations of some states require us to maintain a minimum amount of statutory capital and restrict the amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries may pay to us. Guaranty is a wholly owned subsidiary of Stewart and the principal source of our cash flow. In this regard, the ability of Guaranty to pay dividends to us is dependent on the approval of the Texas Insurance Commissioner. As of December 31, 2010, under Texas insurance law, Guaranty could pay dividends or make distributions of up to $73.9 million in 2010 after approval of the Texas Insurance Commissioner. However, Guaranty voluntarily restricts dividends to us so that it can grow its statutory surplus, maintain liquidity at competitive levels and maintain its high ratings. A title insurer’s ability to pay claims can significantly affect the decision of lenders and other customers when buying a title insurance policy. Litigation risks include claims by large classes of claimants. We are periodically involved in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we are currently, and have been in the past, subject to claims and litigation from large classes of claimants seeking substantial damages not arising in the ordinary course of business. Material pending legal proceedings, if any, not in the ordinary course of business, are disclosed in Item 3 — Legal Proceedings included elsewhere in this report. To date, the impact of the outcome of these proceedings has not been material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. However, an unfavorable outcome in any litigation, claim or investigation against us could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make a takeover of us difficult. This may reduce the opportunity for our stockholders to obtain a takeover premium for their shares of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware corporation law and the insurance laws of various states, all contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares, or that may otherwise delay, defer or prevent a change in control of Stewart. The holders of our Class B Common Stock have the right to elect four of our nine directors. Pursuant to our by-laws, the vote of six directors is required to constitute an act by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the affirmative vote of at least one of the directors elected by the holders of the Class B Common Stock is required for any action to be taken by the Board of Directors. The foregoing provision of our by-laws may not be amended or repealed without the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of each class of our capital stock, voting as separate classes. The voting rights of the holders of our Class B Common Stock may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited tender offers, merger proposals, proxy contests or other takeover proposals to acquire control of Stewart. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Table of Contents 