Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are dependent upon key customers. We rely on several key customers who represent a significant portion of our business. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, our top five customers, Electro-Motive Diesel, GE Transportation Systems, Trinity Industries, Union Pacific Railroad, and Bombardier, accounted for 26% of our net sales. While we believe our relationships with our customers are generally good, our top customers could choose to reduce or terminate their relationships with us. In addition, many of our customers place orders for products on an as needed basis and operate in cyclical industries and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Such customer orders are dependent upon their markets and customers, and may be subject to delays and cancellations. As a result of our dependence on our key customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we lost any one or more of our key customers or if there is a reduction in their demand for our products. Our business operates in a highly competitive industry. We operate in a competitive marketplace and face substantial competition from a limited number of established competitors in the United States and abroad, some of which may have greater financial resources than us. Price competition is strong and, coupled with the existence of a number of cost conscious purchasers, has 10 Table of Contents historically limited our ability to increase prices. In addition to price, competition is based on product performance and technological leadership, quality, reliability of delivery and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that competition in one or more of our markets will not adversely affect us and our results of operations. We intend to pursue future acquisition strategies that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits. One aspect of our business strategy is to selectively pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations that we believe will improve our market position and realize operating synergies, operating expense reductions and overhead cost savings. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations involve inherent risks and uncertainties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including: • difficulties in achieving identified financial and operating synergies, including the integration of operations, services and products; • diversion of management attention from other business concerns; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; and • unanticipated changes in the market conditions, business and economic factors affecting such an acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to consummate synergistic and strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to fully implement our business strategy and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. In addition, our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions will be dependent on our ability to raise substantial capital, and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement our acquisition strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. As we introduce new products and services, a failure to predict and react to consumer demand could adversely affect our business. We have dedicated significant resources to the development, manufacturing and marketing of new products. Decisions to develop and market new transportation products are typically made without firm indications of customer acceptance. Moreover, by their nature, new products may require alteration of existing business methods or threaten to displace existing equipment in which our customers may have a substantial capital investment. There can be no assurance that any new products that we develop will gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace or that such products will be able to compete successfully with other new products or services that may be introduced by competitors. Our revenues are subject to cyclical variations in the railway and passenger transit markets and changes in government spending. The railway industry historically has been subject to significant fluctuations due to overall economic conditions, the level of use of alternate methods of transportation and the levels of federal, state and local government spending on railroad transit projects. In economic downturns, railroads have deferred, and may defer, certain expenditures in order to conserve cash in the short term. Reductions in freight traffic may reduce demand for our replacement products. The passenger transit railroad industry is also cyclical. New passenger transit car orders vary from year to year and are influenced greatly by major replacement programs and by the construction or expansion of transit systems by transit authorities. A substantial portion of our net sales has been, and we expect that a material 11 Table of Contents portion of our future net sales may be, derived from contracts with metropolitan transit and commuter rail authorities and Amtrak. To the extent that future funding for proposed public projects is curtailed or withdrawn altogether as a result of changes in political, economic, fiscal or other conditions beyond our control, such projects may be delayed or cancelled, resulting in a potential loss of business for us, including transit aftermarket and new transit car orders. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will be favorable or that there will not be significant fluctuations adversely affecting the industry as a whole and, as a result, us. Prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business. Unfavorable general economic and market conditions in the United States and internationally (including as a result of terrorist activities and the military response by the United States and other countries) could have a negative impact on our sales and operations. To the extent that these factors result in continued instability of capital markets, shortages of raw materials or component parts, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of customer orders or an inability to market our products effectively, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A growing portion of our sales may be derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level. In fiscal year 2006, 22% of our consolidated net sales were derived from sales outside of North America and we intend to continue to expand our international operations in the future. We currently conduct our international operations through a variety of wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico and the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to various risks, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on those operations and on our business as a whole, including: • lack of complete operating control; • lack of local business experience; • currency exchange fluctuations and devaluations; • foreign trade restrictions and exchange controls; • difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights; • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; and • economic, political and social instability and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. In addition, certain jurisdictions have laws that limit the ability of non-U.S. subsidiaries and their affiliates to pay dividends and repatriate cash flows. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to increases in interest rates that may adversely affect funding costs associated with variable-rate debt and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We may seek to minimize these risks through the use of interest rate swap contracts and currency hedging agreements. There can be no assurance that any of these measures will be effective. Any material changes in interest or exchange rates could result in material losses to us. We may have liability arising from asbestos litigation. Claims have been filed against the Company and certain of its affiliates in various jurisdictions across the United States by persons alleging bodily injury as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products. Since 2000, the number of such claims has increased and the resolution of these claims may take a significant period of 12 Table of Contents time. Most of these claims have been made against our wholly owned subsidiary, Railroad Friction Products Corporation (RFPC), and are based on a product sold by RFPC prior to the time that the Company acquired any interest in RFPC. On April 17, 2005, a claim against the Company by a former stockholder of RFPC contending that the Company assumed that entity’s liability for asbestos claims arising from exposure to RFPC’s product was resolved in the Company’s favor. Most of these claims, including all of the RFPC claims, are submitted to insurance carriers for defense and indemnity or to non-affiliated companies that retain the liabilities for the asbestos-containing products at issue. We cannot, however, assure that all these claims will be fully covered by insurance or that the indemnitors will remain financially viable. Our ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these claims, as is the case with other pending litigation, cannot be estimated. It is Management’s belief that the potential range of loss for asbestos-related bodily injury cases is not reasonably determinable at present for a variety of factors, including: (1) the limited asbestos case settlement history of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, RFPC; (2) the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation in general; and (3) the uncertainty of asbestos litigation in particular. Despite this uncertainty, and although the results of the Company’s operations and cash flows for any given period could be adversely affected by asbestos-related lawsuits, Management believes that the final resolution of the Company’s asbestos-related cases will not be material to the Company’s overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In general, this belief is based upon: (1) Wabtec’s and RFPC’s limited history of settlements and dismissals of asbestos-related cases to date; (2) the inability of many plaintiffs to establish any exposure or causal relationship to RFPC’s product; and (3) the inability of many plaintiffs to demonstrate any identifiable injury or compensable loss. More specifically, as to RFPC, Management’s belief that any losses due to asbestos-related cases would not be material is also based on the fact that RFPC owns insurance which provides coverage for asbestos-related bodily injury claims. To date, RFPC’s insurers have provided RFPC with defense and indemnity in these actions. As to Wabtec and its divisions, Management’s belief that asbestos-related cases will not have a material impact is also based on its position that it has no legal liability for asbestos-related bodily injury claims, and that the former owners of Wabtec’s assets retained asbestos liabilities for the products at issue. To date, Wabtec has been able to successfully defend itself on this basis, including two arbitration decisions and a judicial opinion, all of which confirmed Wabtec’s position that it did not assume any asbestos liabilities from the former owners of certain Wabtec assets. Although Wabtec has incurred defense and administrative costs in connection with asbestos bodily injury actions, these costs have not been material, and the Company has no information that would suggest these costs would become material in the foreseeable future. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing discharges to air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous or solid waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances. We believe our operations currently comply in all material respects with all of the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business; however, there can be no assurance that environmental requirements will not change in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to comply with such requirements. Our manufacturer’s warranties or product liability may expose us to potentially significant claims. We warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our products. Accordingly, we are subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death, or does not conform to our customers’ specifications. In addition, in recent years, we have introduced a number of new products for which we do not have the same level of historical warranty experience. Although we have not had any material product liability or warranty claims made against us and we currently 13 Table of Contents maintain liability insurance coverage, we cannot assure you that product liability claims, if made, would not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that insurance will continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The possibility exists for these types of warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation. Labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We collectively bargain with labor unions that represent approximately 41% of our employees. Our current collective bargaining agreements generally extend through 2007, 2008, and 2009. Failure to reach an agreement could result in strikes or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it would be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. We cannot assure you that we will reach any such agreement or that we will not encounter strikes or other types of conflicts with the labor unions of our personnel. Such labor disputes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, could cause us to lose revenues and customers and might have permanent effects on our business. From time to time we are engaged in contractual disputes with our customers. From time to time, we are engaged in contractual disputes with our customers regarding routine delivery and performance issues as well as adjustments for design changes and related extra work. These disputes are generally resolved in the ordinary course of business without having a material adverse impact on us. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. At December 31, 2006, we have total debt of $150 million. If it becomes necessary to access our available borrowing capacity under the Refinancing Credit Agreement, along with carrying the $150 million 6 7/8% senior notes, being indebted could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. The indenture for our $150 million 6 7/8% senior notes due 2013 and our Refinancing Credit Agreement contain various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our businesses. The indenture governing the notes and our credit agreement contain various covenants that limit our management’s discretion. The Refinancing Credit Agreement limits the Company’s ability to declare or pay cash dividends and prohibits the Company from declaring or making other distributions, subject to certain exceptions. The Refinancing Credit Agreement contains various other covenants and restrictions including the following limitations: incurrence of additional indebtedness; mergers, consolidations and sales of assets and acquisitions; additional liens; sale and leasebacks; permissible investments, loans and advances; certain debt payments; capital expenditures; and imposes a minimum interest expense coverage ratio and a maximum debt to cash flow ratio. 14 Table of Contents The indenture under which the senior notes were issued contains covenants and restrictions which limit among other things, the following: the incurrence of indebtedness, payment of dividends and certain distributions, sale of assets, change in control, mergers and consolidations and the incurrence of liens. The integration of our recently completed acquisitions may not result in anticipated improvements in market position or the realization of anticipated operating synergies or may take longer to realize than expected. In the fourth quarter of 2006 we completed the acquisition of 100% of the stock of Schaefer and Becorit for a combined $87.2 million, net of cash received. Although we believe that the acquisitions will improve our market position and realize positive operating results, including operating synergies, operating expense reductions and overhead cost savings, we cannot be assured that these improvements will be obtained. The management and acquisition of businesses involves substantial risks, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including: • the uncertainty that an acquired business will achieve anticipated operating results; • significant expenses to integrate; • diversion of management attention; • departure of key personnel from the acquired business; • effectively managing entrepreneurial spirit and decision-making; • integration of different information systems; • unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; and • impairment of assets. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 