Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information presented in this report and our other filings with the SEC, in evaluating our business and any investment in our company. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In that event, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline materially. If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues will decline. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by changes in economic conditions, particularly mortgage interest rates. Our revenues and earnings have fluctuated in the past and we expect them to fluctuate in the future. The demand for our title insurance and real estate information services depends in large part on the volume of residential and commercial real estate transactions. The volume of these transactions historically has been influenced by factors such as mortgage interest rates and the overall state of the economy. Typically, when interest rates are increasing or when the economy is experiencing a downturn, real estate activity declines. As a result, the title insurance industry tends to experience decreased revenues and earnings. Increases in interest rates also may have an adverse impact on our bond portfolio and interest on our bank debt. We have benefited from a low mortgage interest rate environment and an increase in home prices in recent years. A reversal of these trends could adversely affect our revenues and earnings absent increases in market share, which cannot be assured. Competition in the title insurance industry affects our revenues. Competition in the title insurance industry is strong, particularly with respect to price, service and expertise. Larger commercial customers and mortgage originators also look to the size and financial strength of the title insurer. Although we are one of the leading title insurance underwriters based on market share, Fidelity National Financial, Inc., The First American Corporation and LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. are each substantially larger than we are. Their holding companies have significantly greater capital than we do. Although we are not aware of any current initiatives to reduce regulatory barriers to entering our industry, any such reduction could result in new competitors, including financial institutions, entering the title insurance business. Competition among the major title insurance companies and any new entrants could lower our premium and fee revenues. From time to time, new entrants enter the marketplace with alternative products to traditional title insurance, although many of these alternative products have been disallowed by title insurance regulators. These alternative products, if permitted by regulators, could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Rapid technological changes in our industry require timely and cost-effective responses. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively use technology to increase productivity. Technological advances occur rapidly in the title insurance industry as industry standards evolve and title insurers frequently introduce new products and services. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to anticipate technological changes and to offer products and services that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. Successful implementation and customer acceptance of our technology-based services, such as SureClose, will be crucial to our future profitability, as will increasing our productivity to recover our costs of developing these services. There is a risk that products and services introduced by our competitors, or advances in technology, could reduce the usefulness of our products and render them obsolete. -6- Table of Contents Our claims experience may require us to increase our provision for title losses or to record additional reserves, either of which could adversely affect our earnings. Estimating future loss payments is difficult, and our assumptions about future losses may prove inaccurate. Claims are often complex and involve uncertainties as to the dollar amount and timing of individual payments. Claims are often paid many years after a policy is issued. From time to time, we experience large losses from title policies that have been issued, which require us to increase our title loss reserves. These events are unpredictable and adversely affect our earnings. Our growth strategy will depend in part on our ability to acquire and integrate complementary businesses. As part of our overall growth strategy, we selectively acquire businesses and technologies that will allow us to enter new markets, provide services that we currently do not offer or advance our existing technology. Our ability to continue this acquisition strategy will depend on our success in identifying and consummating acquisitions of businesses on favorable economic terms. The success of this strategy will also depend on our ability to integrate the operations, products and personnel of any acquired business, retain key personnel, introduce new products and services on a timely basis and increase the strength of our existing management team. Although we actively seek acquisition candidates, we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. If we are unable to acquire appropriate businesses on favorable economic terms, or at all, or are unable to introduce new products and services successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We rely on dividends from our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. Significant restrictions on dividends from our subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions. We are a holding company and our principal assets are the securities of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. Because of this structure, we depend primarily on receiving sufficient dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations, to pay our operating expenses and to pay dividends. The insurance statutes and regulations of some states require us to maintain a minimum amount of statutory capital and restrict the amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries may pay to us. Guaranty is a wholly owned subsidiary of Stewart and the principal source of our cash flow. In this regard, the ability of Guaranty to pay dividends to us is dependent on the acknowledgement of the Texas Insurance Commissioner. As of December 31, 2006, under Texas insurance law, Guaranty could pay dividends or make distributions of up to $101.7 million in 2007 without approval of the Texas Insurance Commissioner. However, Guaranty voluntarily restricts dividends to us so that it can grow its statutory surplus and maintain liquidity at competitive levels. A title insurer’s ability to pay claims can significantly affect the decision of lenders and other customers when buying a policy from a particular insurer. These restrictions could limit our ability to fund our acquisition program with cash and to fulfill other cash needs. -7- Table of Contents Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive government regulations. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and operating results. Authorities regulate our insurance subsidiaries in the various states and international jurisdictions in which we do business. These regulations generally are intended for the protection of policyholders rather than stockholders. The nature and extent of these regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but typically involve: • approval or setting of insurance premium rates; • standards of solvency and minimum amounts of statutory capital and surplus that must be maintained; • limitations on types and amounts of investments; • establishing reserves, including statutory premium reserves, for losses and loss adjustment expenses; • regulation of dividend payments and other transactions among affiliates; • prior approval for the acquisition and control of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • licensing of insurers and agencies; • regulation of reinsurance; • restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured by a single company; • regulation of underwriting and marketing practices; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • approval of policy forms; • methods of accounting; and • filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on rate increases or other actions that we might want to take to enhance our operating results. Changes in these regulations may also adversely affect us. In addition, state regulatory examiners perform periodic examinations of insurance companies, which could result in increased compliance or litigation expenses. Litigation risks include claims by large classes of claimants. We are periodically involved in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we are currently, and have been in the past, subject to claims and litigation from large classes of claimants seeking substantial damages not arising in the ordinary course of business. Material pending legal proceedings, if any, not in the ordinary course of business, are disclosed in Item 3 — Legal Proceedings included elsewhere in this report. To date, the impact of the outcome of these proceedings has not been material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. However, an unfavorable outcome in any litigation, claim or investigation against us could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make a takeover of us difficult. This may reduce the opportunity for our stockholders to obtain a takeover premium for their shares of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware corporation law and the insurance laws of various states, all contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares, or that may otherwise delay, defer or prevent a change in control of Stewart. The holders of our Class B Common Stock have the right to elect four of our nine directors. Pursuant to our by-laws, the vote of six directors is required to constitute an act by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the affirmative vote of at least one of the directors elected by the holders of the Class B Common Stock is required for any action to be taken by the Board of Directors. The foregoing provision of our by-laws may not be amended or repealed without the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of each class of our capital stock, voting as separate classes. -8- Table of Contents The voting rights of the holders of our Class B Common Stock may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited tender offers, merger proposals, proxy contests or other takeover proposals to acquire control of Stewart. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 