Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. 9 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are primarily engaged with activities at a stage in the development of pharmaceutical products where success is uncertain Although we are presently generating revenues from the sale of contract manufacturing services, we have not sufficiently advanced the development of PG545 or our other product candidates to enable their registration, and, accordingly, have not begun to market or generate revenues from their commercialization. PG545 and other future pharmaceutical product candidates will require significant additional investment in research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, drug manufacture and supply, regulatory and sales and marketing activities, and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. Since being licensed to a third party, PI-88 (muparfostat) has generated revenues through milestone payments linked to its development. We cannot make any assurances that any of our product candidates or licensed products, if successfully developed, will generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to be profitable. There is a significant risk that we may not be able to complete the development of PG545, PI-88 or develop other pharmaceutical products We cannot make any assurances that we or our collaborative partners will be able to develop PG545, PI-88 or any future pharmaceutical product candidates adequately to successful commercialization, the development of one or more suitable collaborative partners, or a combination thereof, or that our research will lead to the discovery of additional product candidates, or that any of our current and future product candidates will be successfully developed, will be proven to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards and receive regulatory approval, will be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs, or will be successfully or profitably marketed, either by us or a collaborative partner. We also cannot make any assurances that the products we develop will be able to penetrate the potential market for a particular therapy or indication or gain market acceptance among health care providers, patients and third-party payers. We cannot predict if or when PG545, PI-88 or any of our other pharmaceutical products under development will be commercialized. The results of on-going and future clinical trials of PG545 and PI-88 are uncertain and we or our collaborative partners will not be able to commercialize PG545, PI-88 or any of our other product candidates if we fail to adequately demonstrate their safety, efficacy and superiority over existing therapies Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our pharmaceutical products, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical studies that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. Conducting preclinical testing and clinical studies is an expensive, protracted and time-consuming process. Furthermore, the results of preclinical in vitro (within an artificial environment) and in vivo animal studies may not necessarily be predictive of results obtained in human clinical testing. Likewise, results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in both large-scale and later-stage clinical testing, which may lead the clinical trial to be a complete failure. In addition, even though a potential drug product shows promising results in clinical trials, regulatory authorities may not grant the necessary approvals without sufficient safety and efficacy data. 10 Until the July 2008 termination of the Phase 3 PATHWAY trial of PI-88 in liver cancer, we were embarking on the global registration of PI-88. Since the termination of this trial, we signed a License and Collaboration Agreement with a Taiwanese company Medigen Biotechnology Corporation (“MBC”) for the worldwide rights of PI-88 in 2010. MBC is currently conducting a randomized, placebo-controlled multinational Phase III clinical trial called (“PATRON”) designed to confirm the efficacy and safety of PI-88 in the adjuvant treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. The trial will enroll approximately 500 subjects globally with the majority of patients to be enrolled from Asia. Disease free survival is employed as the primary endpoint for efficacy assessment. Other endpoints such as time to recurrence, tumor recurrence rate and overall survival will be measured as secondary endpoints. The PATRON trial has clinical sites open in China, Taiwan and South Korea. MBC completed enrollment of 500 patients for the PATRON trial in December 2013. MBC has received notification from the Taiwan Food and Drug Administration (“TFDA”) stating that PI-88 has successfully qualified under the Cross Strait Pharmaceuticals R&D Scheme. The Cross Strait Pharmaceuticals R&D Scheme is a joint initiative between the TFDA and the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration, whereby Taiwan and China simultaneously examine Investigative New Drug Applications and New Drug Applications and mutually recognize data from clinical trials conducted in either country. The scheme both reduces repetition of clinical trials and advances PI-88’s potential use in the Chinese market. Progen is entitled to milestone payments based upon the achievement of various stages of clinical development and royalties on sales following marketing approval. In July 2014, MBC announced the results of the interim analysis for the PATRON trial. The results suggest that the activity of PI-88 did not achieve the highly significant statistical result which could have allowed Medigen to lodge an accelerated New Drug Application (NDA) with the Taiwan Food and Drug Administration (TFDA). Further analysis of the interim results will be undertaken by Medigen’s independent committee of medical and statistical experts following the availability of data from BioClinica, a United States independent medical imaging company who are engaged to further review patients CT and magnetic resonance scans. The PATRON trial is currently ongoing and at this time is expected to continue until the end of trial at which point a final analysis will reveal whether PI-88 meets its primary endpoint of disease free survival in this life-threatening and unmet area of medical need for which there is currently no approved standard of care for adjuvant therapy. 11 We have completed the Phase 2 clinical trial to determine the safety and efficacy of PI-88 combined with the chemotherapy dacarbazine as first-line therapy in subjects with unresectable metastatic melanoma which commenced in 2005 in the United States and Australia,. The data showed that for the primary end-point of non-progression after 18 weeks of treatment, PI-88 did not provide additional benefit to patients with advanced melanoma when used in combination with dacarzabine, as this combination was not more efficacious than dacarzabine alone or for the secondary end-points of time to progression, progression free survival response rate and duration of response. Further clinical trials in this indication will not be pursued by Progen as we have granted a worldwide license to MBC for oncology indications for PI-88. During 2010, the board of directors made the decision to divest the assets acquired in the CellGate transaction in February 2008 to enable the Company to focus on its core strengths – dual mechanism anti-angiogenesis compounds. The CellGate assets which include PG11047, PG11144 and the epigenetics assets, were rolled into a U.S. entity called Epi Pharmaceuticals Inc, in which Progen retained a significant stake. In 2012, the directors and shareholders decided to dissolve Epi Pharmaceuticals Inc after not being able to find a counterparty to provide ongoing funding to support and develop the assets. A Certificate of Dissolution was filed with the Delaware Division of Corporations on 30 October 2012. Clinical trials may take several years to complete. The length of time varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty, patient recruitment into and intended use of the product candidate. We cannot make any assurances that, when clinical trials are completed by us or our collaborative partners, we will be able to pursue further clinical development, execute market development efforts, enter into a collaborative arrangement with a suitable pharmaceutical or biotechnology company to complete the development of, or commercialize our drug candidates. Nor can we make any assurances that once clinical trials are completed by us or a collaborative partner, we will be able to submit as scheduled a marketing approval request to the Australian Therapeutic Good Administration’s (TGA) Drug Safety and Evaluation Branch, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any other authority, or, that such request and application will be reviewed and cleared by any of these authorities, as applicable, in a timely manner, or at all. During the course of clinical trials and toxicology studies, our product candidates may exhibit unforeseen and unacceptable drug-related toxicities or side effects. If any unacceptable toxicities or side effects were to occur, we may, or regulatory authorities may require us to, interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of our potential products. In addition, unacceptable toxicities could ultimately prevent the clearance of our product candidates by the TGA or the FDA for any or all targeted indications. Even after being cleared by the TGA or the FDA, any of our products may later be shown to be unsafe or not to have its purported effect, thereby preventing widespread use or requiring withdrawal from the market. We cannot make any assurances that any of our other product candidates will be safe or effective when administered to patients. In September 2011, Progen’s Phase 1a PG545 human clinical trial by subcutaneous administration in advanced cancer patients was put on hold due to unexpected local injection site reactions seen in patients. These reactions appeared to be a very specific side effect in humans and were not seen to this extent in the extensive preclinical animal testing of the drug. In December 2011, Progen announced that it would commence licensing discussions with potential partners to continue the preclinical and clinical development of PG545. 12 In December 2012, Progen announced that it had signed a confidential binding Term Sheet for a license with MBC. The license relates to the development and commercialization of PG545 for the prevention and treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (“HCC”) and non-oncology indications globally. Progen retains the rights for all other oncology indications for PG545. In March 2013, Progen announced that they had executed the License Agreement with MBC pursuant to the binding Term Sheet. The specific terms of the License Agreement are in line with industry standards but are subject to commercial confidentiality. Progen received AUD$400,000, net of withholding tax, as an upfront payment pursuant to the License Agreement upon execution of the binding Term Sheet. Progen will receive further milestone payments from MBC as PG545 is developed for HCC and non-oncology indications and royalty payments from sales Progen conducted further preclinical tests with the view of using an intravenous route (IV) of administration for PG545 moving forward and in August 2013 successfully completed a definitive four-week preclinical toxicology study using IV administration of PG545. The study was conducted in accordance with OECD Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) toxicology. In October 2013, the Company commenced an open-label, multi-centre Phase 1a study of the safety and tolerability of intravenous infused PG545 in advanced cancer patients. In May 2014, the Company had completed treatment of the first patient cohort where each patient in the group received once-weekly 25mg doses of PG545 for four weeks. In September 2014, the Company had completed treatment of the second patient cohort where each patient in the group received once-weekly 50mg doses of PG545. The study is expected to enroll approximately 25 advanced cancer patients. The Company continues to foster potential partnerships and business relationships with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the licensing of PG545 in the field of oncology (excluding HCC) once it reaches the value inflection point of proof of concept. We may experience delays in our clinical trials that could adversely affect our business and operations We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or whether we will complete any of our clinical trials on schedule or at all. Our ability to commence and complete clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: ● Government or regulatory delays, including delays in obtaining approvals from applicable hospital ethics committees and internal review boards; ● Slower than expected patient recruitment; ● Our inability to manufacture or prepare, as applicable, sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical product; ● Unforeseen safety issues; and ● Lack of efficacy during clinical trials. 13 Patient enrollment is a function of, amongst other things, the nature of the clinical trial protocol, the existence of competing protocols, the size and longevity of the target patient population and the availability of patients who meet the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays in trial completion or termination of clinical trials. Moreover, we have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials and may rely on third parties to assist us in managing and monitoring clinical trials. Any failure by these third parties to perform under their agreements with us may cause the trials to be delayed or result in a failure to complete the trials. Product development costs to our collaborators and us will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Significant delays could have a material adverse effect on the commercial prospects of our product candidates and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a variety of reasons. Completion of clinical trials depends on, among other things, our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients, which is a function of many factors, including: ● the therapeutic endpoints chosen for evaluation; ● proximity of patients to clinical sites; ● the eligibility criteria for participation in the clinical trials; ● the size of the patient population required for meaningful analysis of the trial results; ● our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience; ● our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; ● the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion; and ● competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments. We have in the past experienced, and may again experience difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, particularly due to the rate of incidence for our target indications in certain populations, as well as the geographical locations we may select for conducting our clinical trials. Any such difficulties could increase the costs or affect the timing or outcome of these trials and could prevent us from completing these trials. 14 We may not be successful in performing additional clinical trials in other indications If our product candidates are approved for one or more initial indications and are successfully commercialized, our strategy calls for the execution of additional clinical trials in other indications. We may not be able to initiate such additional trials due to a number of factors, including the following: ● we may not have sufficient financial or other resources to undertake such trials; ● we may be unable to secure sufficient support from leading authorities or influential parties to build trial protocols and support for conduct of a new trial; ● there may not be sufficient market size to warrant product development in other new indications; and ● the health care community may believe that our products are limited in use to the already-approved indications. Any failure to initiate additional clinical trials in other indications could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have limited manufacturing experience, and delays in manufacturing sufficient quantities of PI-88 and PG545 for preclinical and clinical trials, whether internally or externally, may negatively impact our business and operations We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of PI-88, PG545 or any of our other product candidates in a cost-effective or timely manner. Any delays in production would delay our preclinical and clinical trials which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to enter into contracting arrangements with third parties to manufacture PG545 and our other product candidates for large-scale, later-stage clinical trials. We may need to enter into collaborative arrangements with other parties who have established manufacturing capabilities, or have third parties manufacture or prepare our products on a contract basis. We cannot make any assurances that we will have access on acceptable terms to the necessary and substantial financing that would be required to scale-up production and develop effective commercial manufacturing processes and technologies. We also cannot make any assurances that we will be able to enter into collaborative or contracting arrangements on acceptable terms with parties that will meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness. If we are unable to independently commercialize or establish and manage strategic collaborations to develop PI-88, PG545 or any of our other product candidates, we may have to reduce or delay product development and/or increase our expenditures Our strategy for developing and commercializing our product candidates includes entering into various relationships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to provide us with funding and/or to perform research, clinical development, regulatory clearance, commercial scale manufacturing, sales, marketing or distribution activities relating to PI-88, PG545 or some or all of our current or future product candidates. To date, we have secured a license with a Taiwanese company who is managing the development of PI-88 in oncology indications and PG545 for hepatocellular carcinoma and non-oncology indications. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of collaborations on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish collaborative arrangements, we may have to reduce or delay further development of or our product candidates and/or increase our expenditures and undertake the development and commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to fund our research and development programs on our own, we will need to obtain additional financing which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. 15 If we successfully establish strategic collaborations, the management of our relationship with collaborators will require significant time and effort from our management team, coordination of our research and development programs with the research and development priorities of our collaborators, and effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects. We cannot be certain that these relationships will result in the successful development or commercialization of our product candidates or the generation of sales revenue. If we enter into strategic collaborations at an early phase of product development, our success will in part depend on the performance of our corporate collaborators. Factors that could harm a successful collaboration include: ● Collaborators may delay clinical trials, underfund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; ● Collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our current and future product candidates; ● Collaborators may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of our product candidates, limiting potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; ● Collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from collaborations or may elect not to continue or renew research and development programs; ● The terms of our agreements with collaborators may not be favorable to us; ● Disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, resulting in significant litigation or arbitration, or causing collaborators to act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of our shareholders; and ● Collaborators may terminate their agreements with us if, for example, we fail to meet a required milestone or observe other obligations in those agreements. Our limited oversight of contract research organizations may not be sufficient to avoid significant problems with the protocols and conduct of the clinical trials. We engage third-party contract research organizations to help us with the conduct of our clinical trials. These organizations may not perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us. If contract research organizations and other third parties do not perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner or breach their obligations to us, the development and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed or precluded. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources these contract research organizations devote to our programs or product candidates. The failure of any of these contract research organizations to comply with any governmental regulations would substantially harm our development and marketing efforts and delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we are unable to rely on clinical data collected by others, we could be required to repeat, extend the duration of, or increase the size of our clinical trials and this could significantly delay commercialization and require significantly greater expenditures. 16 Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize new product candidates beyond PI-88 and PG545 are at a very early stage and, therefore, these efforts are subject to a high risk of failure The process of successfully developing product candidates is very time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. We may not be successful in identifying, developing or commercializing any additional new product candidates. We are operating with reduced Management oversight which could adversely affect our business and operations Following Board and Senior Management changes in the last few years the Company has a much smaller Senior Management with an Executive Chairman and is now operating using a virtual business by outsourcing activities such as preclinical and regulatory functions. With less management oversight our business and financial condition may suffer. We may require substantial additional financing in the future to sufficiently fund our operations, development efforts and research We have been unprofitable to date and expect to incur losses over the next several years as we continue our drug discovery and development programs and preclinical testing and as we conduct clinical trials of PG545 and our other product candidates. Current cash inflows are not sufficient to continue to fund operations and based on current and projected expenditure levels management may contemplate a capital raising to continue to fund operations. The Company estimates that the current cash and cash equivalents are sufficient to fund its on-going operations for at least 11 months from July 2014. This excludes capital requirements outside of normal operating activities. Our actual cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned and will depend upon numerous factors, including: ● The continued progress of our research and development programs; ● The timing, scope, results and costs of preclinical studies and clinical trials; ● The progress of licensing and partnering efforts; ● The cost, timing and outcome of regulatory submissions and approvals; ● Determinations as to the commercial potential of our product candidates; ● Our ability to successfully expand our contract manufacturing services, should we choose to do so; ● Our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements; and ● The status and timing of competitive developments. 17 We may require additional funds to conduct future clinical trials, pursue regulatory clearances, prosecute and defend our intellectual property rights, establish commercial scale manufacturing facilities, develop marketing and sales capabilities and fund operating expenses. We have no established bank financing arrangements, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to establish such arrangements on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may seek such additional funding through public or private financings and/or through strategic alliances or other arrangements with corporate partners. We cannot, however, be certain that such additional financing will be available from any sources on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be able to establish strategic alliances or other arrangements with corporate partners on acceptable terms, or at all. Any shortfall in funding could result in our having to curtail our operations, including our research and development activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve profitability in the near future We have incurred net operating losses in each year since we began operations in 1989. As of June 30, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $158,687,498 primarily attributable to our research and development activities. We expect to incur additional operating losses and to increase our cumulative losses substantially as we expand our research and development and preclinical activities. In addition, further losses are expected to be incurred in the continuation of our drug development programs. Our research and development efforts will be seriously jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and cultivate key academic and scientific collaborations We are a company with 22 employees as of October 20, 2015. Our success is highly dependent on the continued contributions of our principal management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions and scientists. Competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel critical to our success. We also have relationships with leading academic and scientific collaborators who conduct research at our request or assist us in formulating our research and development strategies. These academic and scientific collaborators are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. 18 Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will negatively impact our business and operations We cannot make any assurances that our products will achieve market acceptance even if they are approved by the TGA, the FDA, and the regulatory agencies of other countries. The degree of market acceptance of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: ● The receipt and timing of regulatory approvals for the uses that we are studying; ● The establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our product candidates and their potential advantages over existing therapeutics and technologies; and ● The pricing and reimbursement policies of governments and third-party payers. Physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, use or recommend any of our products. We may need to rely on the marketing and distribution capabilities of third parties As a company, we currently have limited experience in marketing, sales or distribution of pharmaceutical products. If we develop any commercially marketable pharmaceutical products, we may be required to enter into marketing arrangements with other parties who have established appropriate marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to enter into marketing arrangements with any marketing partner or that if such arrangements are established, our marketing partners will be able to commercialize our products successfully. Other companies offering similar or substitute products may have well-established and well-funded marketing and sales operations in place that will allow them to market their products more successfully. Failure to establish sufficient marketing capabilities may have a material adverse impact our potential revenues and results of operations. Alternatively, if we decide to perform our own sales and marketing activities, we will require additional management, will need to hire sales and marketing personnel, and will require additional capital. We cannot make any assurances that qualified personnel will be available in adequate numbers or at a reasonable cost, that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, or that our sales staff will achieve success in their marketing efforts. Healthcare insurers and other organizations may not pay for our products, or may impose limits on reimbursement The drugs we strive to develop may be rejected by the marketplace due to many factors, including cost. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce healthcare costs may affect our future revenues and profitability and those of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners, as well as the availability of capital. In Australia and certain foreign markets, the pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is already subject to government control. We expect initiatives for similar government control at both the state and federal level to continue in the United States. The adoption of any such legislative or regulatory proposals could have a material adverse effect on our potential revenues and results of operations. Our ability to commercially exploit our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers, such as government and private health insurers, are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Although the Australian government continues to provide a subsidy to certain prescribed prescription pharmaceutical products through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and in foreign markets, including the United States. If third-party coverage is not available to patients for any of the products we develop, alone or with collaborators, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced which may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. In addition, cost containment legislation and reductions in government insurance programs may result in lower prices for our products and could materially adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 19 Exchange rate fluctuations will continue to affect our reported results of operations Substantially all of our revenues are realized, and a significant portion of our operating costs are incurred, in Australian dollars. Movement in currency exchange rates will affect cash denominated in U.S. dollars and therefore will affect our reported results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR TECHNOLOGY AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Potential technological changes in our field of business create considerable uncertainty We are engaged in the biopharmaceutical field, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. New developments in research are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. Research and discoveries by others may render some or all of our programs or product candidates uncompetitive or obsolete. Our business strategy is based in part upon new and unproven technologies to the development of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of cancer and other serious diseases. Unforeseen problems may develop with these technologies or applications and it is possible that commercially feasible products will not ultimately be developed by us. We may not be able to keep pace with technological change or with the advances of our competitors The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in Australia and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical companies, large biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than any that we are developing, or which would render our technology and products obsolete or non-competitive. Many of these competitors have greater financial and technical resources and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have much more experience than we do in preclinical testing and human clinical trials of new or improved drugs, as well as in obtaining FDA, TGA and other regulatory approvals. We know that competitors are developing or manufacturing various technologies or products for the treatment of diseases that we have targeted for product development. Some of these competitive products use therapeutic approaches that compete directly with some of our product candidates. Our ability to further develop our products may be adversely affected if any of our competitors were to succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for their competitive products sooner than we would. 20 Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology Our success will depend in large part on whether we can: ● Obtain and maintain patents to protect our own products; ● Obtain licenses to relevant patented technologies of third parties; ● Operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties; ● Protect our trade secrets and know-how; and ● Retain our valuable scientific staff who are experts on the subject matter. Patent matters in biotechnology are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, the availability and breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents cannot be predicted. Statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some or all of our inventions outside Australia or prevent us from obtaining patent protection outside Australia, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside Australia and the United States. Moreover, since patent applications in Australia and the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we or any of our licensors were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Additionally, the enforceability of a patent depends on a number of factors that may vary amongst jurisdictions. These factors may include the novelty of the invention, the requirement that the invention not be obvious in light of prior art (including prior use or publication of the invention), the utility of the invention, and the extent to which the patent clearly describes the best method of working the invention. While we intend to seek patent protection for our therapeutic products and technologies, we cannot be certain that any of the pending or future patent applications filed by us or on our behalf will be approved, or that we will develop additional proprietary products or processes that are patentable or that we will be able to license any other patentable products or processes. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate any of the products or processes developed or being developed by us or licensed to us, or design around the patents owned or licensed by us, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide us with competitive advantages. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that patents held by third parties will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating the technology developed by us or licensed to us, or that third parties will not challenge or seek to narrow, invalidate or circumvent any of the issued, pending or future patents owned or licensed by us. 21 Our commercial success will also depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringement of patents issued to others. If a court determines that we were infringing any third-party patents, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We cannot be certain that the licenses required under patents held by third parties would be made available on terms acceptable to us or at all. To the extent that we are unable to obtain such licenses, we could be foreclosed from the development, manufacture or commercialization of the product requiring such license or encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to design around such patents, and any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Such litigation could result in substantial costs to be incurred by us and the diversion of our efforts. We may have to participate in opposition proceedings before the Australian Patent and Trademark Office or another foreign patent office, or in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, to determine the priority of invention for patent applications filed by competitors. Any such litigation, interference or opposition proceeding, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any such proceedings could prevent us from developing, manufacturing or commercializing our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to patent protection, we rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and proprietary technological innovation and expertise that are protected in part by confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, advisors and consultants. We cannot make any assurances that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, third parties could independently develop the same or similar technologies. If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, we may suffer competitive harm. In addition to patented intellectual property, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, confidential information and know-how to protect our technology and maintain our competitive position. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information that have been licensed to us or that we own, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using trade secrets that have been licensed to us or that we own is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States and Australia may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 We do not have patent protection in certain countries and we may not be able to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights in certain countries, which could significantly erode the market for our product candidates. We intend to seek regulatory approval to market our product candidates in a number of foreign countries. Our product candidates are not protected by patents in certain countries, which means that competitors may be free to sell products that incorporate the same technology that is used in our products in those countries. In addition, the laws and practices in some foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. We, or our licensors, may not be able to effectively obtain, maintain or enforce rights with respect to the intellectual property relating to our product candidates in those countries. Our lack of patent protection in one or more countries, or the inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights in one or more countries, could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products in those countries and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION We may not be able to obtain the extensive government approvals required to bring our pharmaceutical products to market Our ongoing research and development activities are, and the production and marketing of our pharmaceutical product candidates derived there from will be, subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in Australia, principally the TGA, and by the FDA in the United States, the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) of the European Union and the regulatory agencies of other countries. Prior to marketing, any therapeutic product developed must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the TGA and, to the extent that any of our pharmaceutical products under development are marketed abroad, by foreign regulatory agencies including the FDA in the United States and the EMEA in Europe. These processes can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect the development and commercialization of our pharmaceutical product candidates and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we intend to make use of fast-track and abbreviated regulatory approval programs when possible, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the clearances and approvals necessary for clinical testing or for manufacturing and marketing our pharmaceutical products candidates. Our business and operations may be negatively impacted if we fail to comply with government regulations applicable to our current revenue generating business To date, we have derived revenues from contract manufacturing services. Our contract manufacturing operations include some manufacturing processes that are required to comply with the applicable current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) requirements of the TGA, the Australian Office of Gene Technology Regulator and the Australian National Registration Authority (agricultural and veterinary chemicals), which govern the methods, controls, facilities and quality assurance procedures used in manufacturing, packing and storing biological and pharmaceutical products. In addition, certain international markets have quality assurance and manufacturing requirements that may be more or less rigorous than those in Australia. Our manufacturing facilities are also subject to periodic inspections by the TGA and the Australian National Registration Authority. Any potential failure to comply with cGMP requirements or with any other international requirements could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Changes in government legislation and policy may adversely affect us While we do not anticipate in the near future any specific material changes in government legislation that may adversely affect us, any material changes in interest rate, exchange rate, relevant taxation and other legal regimes and government policies may adversely affect our operations, the use of our financial resources and the market price of our ordinary shares. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SHARES Our stock price may be volatile and the U.S. trading market for our ordinary shares is limited The market price for our ordinary shares, like that of the securities of many other biotechnology companies, has fluctuated substantially and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. We believe that the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described above and elsewhere in this annual report, will continue to significantly affect the market price of our ordinary shares: ● The results of preclinical testing and clinical trials by us and our competitors; ● Developments concerning research and development, manufacturing, and marketing alliances or collaborations by us and our competitors; ● Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us and our competitors; ● Determinations regarding our patent applications and those of others; ● Publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to medicinal products under development by us and our competitors; ● Proposed governmental regulations and developments in Australia, the U.S. and elsewhere; ● Litigation; ● Economic and other external factors; and ● Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have especially affected the stock market price of many high technology and healthcare-related companies, including biotechnology companies, and, in many cases, are unrelated to the operating performance of the particular companies. We believe that these broad market fluctuations may continue to affect the market price of our ordinary shares. 24 From time to time, there has been limited trading volume with respect to our ordinary shares quoted on the U.S. financial markets (OTCQB Market), but we cannot make any assurances that there will continue to be a trading market in our ordinary shares. We cannot make any assurance that the Company’s securities will continue to be listed on a U.S. market. U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us All of our directors and executive officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to affect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Australia in original actions, or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities to the extent predicated upon the federal securities laws of the United States. U.S. holders of our ordinary shares could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes Based on our audited financial statements and relevant market and shareholder data, we believe we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC”, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our June 30, 2015 taxable year. There is also a risk that we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in future years. Our status as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and warrants and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all our assets produce, or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes interest, gains from the sale of stock, and royalties that are not derived in the active conduct of a trade or business. Because we receive interest and may recognize gains from the sale of appreciated stock, there is a risk that we will be considered a PFIC under the income test described above. In addition, because of our cash position, there is a risk that we will be considered a PFIC under the asset test described above. While we believe that the PFIC rules were not intended to apply to companies such as us that focus on research, development and commercialization of drugs, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a U.S. court would determine that, based on the composition of our income and assets, we are not a PFIC currently or in the future. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares could be subject to greater U.S. income tax liability than might otherwise apply, imposition of U.S. income tax in advance of when tax would otherwise apply, and detailed tax filing requirements that would not otherwise apply. The PFIC rules are complex and you are urged to consult your own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules to you in your particular circumstances. 25 As a foreign private issuer we do not have to provide you with the same information as an issuer of securities based in the U.S. Given that we are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of that law that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including (i) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a registered security; and (iii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time. Thus, investors are not afforded the same protections or information which would be ordinarily available were they investing in a U.S. public corporation. In accordance with the requirements of the Australian Securities Exchange and the Corporations Act 2001, we disclose annual and semi-annual results. Our results are presented in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Our annual results are audited, and our semi-annual results undergo a limited review by our independent auditors. We lodge annual audited results presented in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and IFRS as issued by International Accounting Standards Board with the SEC on Form 20-F. Subject to certain exceptions, we are also required to immediately disclose to the Australian Securities Exchange any information concerning us that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on the price or value of our shares. This would include matters such as (i) any major new developments relating to our business which are not public knowledge and may lead to a substantial movement in our share price; (ii) any changes in our board of directors; (iii) any purchase or redemption by us of our own equity securities; (iv) interests of directors in our shares or debentures; and (v) changes in our capital structure. We are required to provide our semi-annual results and other material information that we disclose in Australia in the U.S. under the cover of Form 6-K. Nevertheless, this information is not the same and may not be as much information as would be made available to investors were they investing in a U.S. public corporation. Future issuances and sales of our stock could dilute your ownership and cause our stock price to decline We intend to continue to finance our operations through the issuance of securities, if feasible, including by way of the public equity markets, private financings and debt. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, existing holders of our securities may experience dilution. Those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, and financing available at less favorable terms may lead to more substantial dilution of existing shareholders. 26 If we fail to comply with internal controls evaluations and attestation requirements our stock price could be adversely affected We are subject to United States securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC pursuant to such Act. As a foreign private issuer, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations, we have previously been required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, including (1) management’s annual report on its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting; and (2) our independent registered public accounting firm’s annual audit of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In 2010, the enactment of the Dodd Frank Bill resulted in an exemption from Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for fiscal 2010 onwards, meaning that we did not have to comply with point (2) above. For further information, see “Item 15—Controls and Procedures—Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” The requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are ongoing and also apply to future years. We expect that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to evolve as our business develops. Although we are committed to continue to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that in the future additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If our efforts to remediate weaknesses identified are not successful or if other deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial conditions or liquidity. Our Constitution and other Australian laws and regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders As an Australian company we are subject to different corporate requirements than a corporation organized under the laws of the United States. Our constituent document, or Constitution, as well as the Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX Listing Rules set forth various rights and obligations that are unique to us as an Australian company. These requirements may limit or otherwise adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. 