ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock and Convertible notes involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K when evaluating the Company and its business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock and convertible notes could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Weakening or depressed general economic conditions in the financial markets and uncertainties in the credit markets leading to a prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. and around the world could materially harm our business by decreasing capital spending and affect our ability to satisfy our financial covenants. Disruption to the capital and credit markets and resulting volatility could significantly and adversely impact global economic conditions including research and development capital expenditure. These conditions have led and could further lead to continuing substantial declines in capital spending over the foreseeable future. While we have seen recent improvements in capital equipment spending, the uncertain outlook in the global economy could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from actual or threatened military action by the United States and threats of terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, could cause a decrease in capital spending in many of the industry sectors we serve. In particular, a downward cycle affecting the computer and 16 Table of Contents semiconductor, data storage devices, automotive and industrial, military and aerospace and telecommunications markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if customers’ markets decline, we may not be able to collect outstanding amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, stock price and Convertible notes valuation, and could limit our ability to maintain operating income profitability. During an economic downturn, demand for our products may decrease. Restrictions on credit globally and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in certain countries may impact economic activity and our results. A substantial or prolonged material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition could affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our new Credit Agreement, which could result in our having to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders to avoid the termination of commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of amounts that are outstanding under our credit facility. The cost of obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and could substantially increase our cost of borrowing over the remaining term of our Credit Agreement. Further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility would become immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to control its operating costs, its future operating results could suffer. Our strategy involves, to a large degree, increasing revenue and volume, while at the same time controlling operating expenses. If we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the inability to control operating costs could adversely affect the Company’s future financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. These circumstances could cause our income to be lower than it otherwise might be and, as a result, adversely affect our stock price and Convertible notes valuation. If the Company misjudges the demand for its products, unplanned inventory levels could adversely affect future operating results, cash flows and profitability. Demand for the Company’s products can affect inventory levels. If customer demand is lower than expected, inventory levels can rise causing a strain on operating cash flow. If the inventory cannot be sold, additional reserves or write-offs to future earnings could be necessary. Conversely, if demand is higher than expected, insufficient inventory levels could result in unfulfilled customer orders, loss of revenue and an unfavorable impact on customer relationships. Failure to properly judge demand and properly manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on profitability, liquidity and financial position. Changes in the sales mix of the Company’s products could impact gross profit margins. The product families that are sold by the Company are sold at a wide range of price points and yield a variety of gross profit margins. Thus, the mix of sales by product family can have an impact on the gross profit margins of the Company. If the Company’s sales mix shifts unfavorably toward products with lower gross profit margins than the Company’s historical consolidated gross profit margin, it could have an adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows. We have experienced varied operating results and they could continue to fluctuate and may not meet our financial guidance or published analyst forecasts, which may cause the price of our common stock, or value of our Convertible notes, to decline significantly. Our past operating results, including our gross profits, have fluctuated from fiscal period to fiscal period. We expect our future operating results and gross profits will continue to fluctuate from fiscal period to fiscal period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control and any of which could cause our stock price and Convertible notes valuation to fluctuate. The primary factors that affect our results include the following: • visibility into our markets is limited, our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during a fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast; 17 Table of Contents • changes in overall demand for our products; • the length and variability of the sales cycle of our products; • the timing of the announcement, introduction and market acceptance of new products by us or competing companies; • the timing and magnitude of research and development expenses; • changes in fair values of stock appreciation rights; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rates of our markets; • changes in our production efficiency; • disruptions in operations at any of our facilities, third party suppliers, or the facilities of any of our contract manufacturers for any reason; • changes in the selling prices of our products; • changes in foreign currency exchange risks; and • other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders. We depend on obtaining orders during each quarter for shipment in the quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure to ship these products by the end of a quarter, may adversely affect our operating results. We base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. Any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, it is likely that the trading price of our common stock would significantly decline. In addition, we have historically experienced somewhat lower activity during our first fiscal quarter than in other fiscal quarters which, we believe, is due principally to the lower level of orders and market activity during the summer months, particularly in Europe. We believe this seasonal aspect of our business is likely to continue in the future. Our common stock price and Convertible notes valuation may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock and valuation of our Convertible notes fluctuates significantly. The stock price and Convertible notes valuation could fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • historically low trading volume in our stock and Convertible notes relative to alternative investments; • announcements of developments related to our business, including additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or enhancements by us or our competitors; • sales by competitors, including sales to our customers; • sales of common stock into the public market, including new offerings and those by directors and members of management; 18 Table of Contents • developments in our relationships with our customers, partners, distributors and suppliers; • shortfalls or changes from analysts’ expectations in revenue, gross profits, earnings or losses, or other financial results; • changes to or discontinuance of our stock or convertible note repurchase programs; • regulatory developments; • fluctuations in results of operations; • failure to meet our financial obligations and covenants under any loans or financing agreements; • the availability and terms of future financing options; • trends in the seasonality of our sales; and • general conditions in our market or the markets served by our customers. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the market for shares of technology stocks in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been due, in part, to factors other than the operating performance of the affected companies. We cannot ensure that the market price of our common stock and valuation of our Convertible notes will not decline substantially, or otherwise continue to experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. Such significant fluctuations in our stock price could unexpectedly materially increase or decrease our costs. We have used SARs as a component of our executive compensation, as we believe that SARs awards motivate our executives to maximize long-term shareholder value. We record share-based compensation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, using the fair value method. We cannot predict the market value of our common stock at the time of the exercise of these grants, nor the magnitude of cash settlement at any particular time over the terms of these grants. Our SARs, which are classified as liability awards, have been and will continue to be, re-measured at fair value at each reporting period until all awards are settled. Fluctuations in the fair value of our SARs are recorded as increases or decreases in share-based compensation expense. The volatility of our common stock price impacts our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results, as it drives the fair value of the SARs. To the extent that there are significant fluctuations in our common stock price, the re-measurement of the SARs liability could have a material impact on our reported results, financial position and cash flows. If demand for our products does not match manufacturing capacity, we may underutilize our capacity or, alternatively, be unable to fulfill orders in a timely manner, and in either situation our operating results and cash flows may suffer. The sale of our products is dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to cyclical trends in the demands for their products. We may not be able to adapt production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions in a timely manner. When demand does not meet expectations, manufacturing capacity will likely exceed production requirements. We have at times increased our production capacity, purchasing and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand which has not always developed as expected. As a result, we have periodically underutilized our capacity, which has adversely affected our earnings due to existing fixed costs. In addition, conversely, if during a market upturn we cannot increase manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will be unable to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on operating results and cash flows of our overall business. If our operating results decline, we may be required to establish an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We evaluate whether our deferred tax assets can be realized and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an ongoing basis. As of July 2, 2011, we have recorded approximately $17.4 million of deferred tax assets (of which 19 Table of Contents approximately $16.6 million is domestic) related to the future tax benefit of certain temporary differences between our financial statements and our tax returns. Realization of our deferred tax assets is mainly dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income within the statutory carryforward period, in addition to reversal of taxable temporary differences, and the utilization of available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets. As of July 2, 2011, we recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $2.6 million to reserve for those deferred tax assets we believe are not more likely than not to be realized in future periods. At July 2, 2011, the Company requires approximately $33.6 million in cumulative domestic future taxable income to be generated at various times in the future to realize the domestic net deferred tax assets. If facts or financial results were to change, thereby impacting the likelihood of realizing the deferred tax assets, our tax rate and therefore our earnings and financial position could be adversely affected as a result of recording a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. An additional valuation allowance would be recorded if it was deemed more likely than not that some or all of our deferred assets will not be realized. If we establish additional valuation allowances, we would record a tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. Changes to our tax rates or exposures to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and cash flows. Additionally, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior year periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be impacted by changes in the mix of earning in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to uncertain tax positions, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may negatively impact our tax rate and as a result, decrease our operating results and cash flows. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in the U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future operating results and cash flows may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. We face risks from fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange, which affect our revenue, cost of revenue and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. A large portion of our sales and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. We purchase materials from suppliers and sell our products around the world and maintain investments in foreign subsidiaries, all denominated in a variety of currencies. As a consequence, we are exposed to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates with respect to a number of currencies, changes in government policies and legal and regulatory requirements, political instability, transportation delays and the imposition of tariffs and export controls. Changes in the relation of foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect revenues, our cost of revenue and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. Among the more significant potential risks to us of relative fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is the relationship among and between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Swedish krona, Japanese yen, Korean won, and Singapore dollar. We have a program of entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize a portion of the risks associated with currency fluctuations on assets, liabilities or other transactions denominated in other than the functional currency of our US operations or our subsidiaries. It cannot be assured, however, that this program will effectively offset all of our foreign currency risk related to these assets or liabilities, or that the Company will choose to offset 100% of these risks. These foreign exchange forward contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. Other than this program, we do not attempt to reduce our foreign currency exchange risks by entering into foreign currency management programs. As a consequence, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the future will not result in mismatches between local currency revenues and expenses, and will not adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, fluctuations in exchange rates could affect the demand for our products. No assurance can be given that our strategies will prevent future currency fluctuations from having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 20 Table of Contents We face numerous risks associated with our international operations, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations since approximately two-thirds of our revenues are derived from international sales. We market and sell our products and services outside the United States, and currently have employees located in China, France, Germany, Italy, India, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Many of our customers and licensees are located outside the United States. As part of our strategy, we have expanded our international sales, particularly in China. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: • dependence on sales representatives or foreign distributors and their sales channels; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • less effective and less predictable recognition, protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, specifically in areas of Asia and particularly in China; • trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • highly cyclical business environments; • unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; • strengthening of the U.S. dollar, which could make our products more expensive or reduce the U.S. dollar amount of revenues denominated in foreign currencies; • changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Such factors could cause our future international sales to decline. We may be greatly impacted by the political, economic, and military conditions in China, Taiwan, Japan, North Korea, and South Korea. In the recent past, these countries have conducted military exercises in or near the others’ territorial waters and airspace. Such disputes may continue or escalate, resulting in economic embargoes, disruptions in shipping, or even military hostilities. This could severely harm our business by interrupting or delaying supplies of components and materials and/or shipment of our products to or through these areas, as well as reducing our sales in these areas. Our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the United States and ongoing military actions in the Middle East, including the economic consequences of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq or additional terrorist activities and associated political instabilities, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the current sovereign debt crisis in Europe and elsewhere and by related global economic conditions. The current European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of European customers and reducing the translated amounts of U.S. dollar revenues. In addition, the European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, 21 Table of Contents remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, consumer purchasing power and demand for our products could decline, and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business practices in international markets subjects us to the requirements of additional regulation. If we or any of our employees are found to have violated these regulations, we could be subject to significant fines and other penalties. We manufacture certain products in the United States, and sell our products and purchase parts, components and sub-assemblies in a number of foreign countries. Our international activities subject us to United States export control restrictions and various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, product content, labor and import/export regulations. In certain cases, we may not be permitted to export products without obtaining an export license. U.S. export laws also prohibit the export of our products to a number of countries. The export of our high-performance oscilloscopes from the United States, which accounts for a material portion of our internationally derived revenue, is also subject to regulation under the Treaty for Nuclear Non-Proliferation. However, only a small portion of those oscilloscopes are sold in countries where that treaty restricts the end-user. These restrictions may make foreign competitors facing less stringent controls on their products more competitive in the global market. We cannot be certain that the U.S. government will approve any pending or future export license requests. In addition, the list of products and countries for which export approval is required, and the regulatory policies with respect thereto, could be revised. Our international sales and, because approximately two- thirds of our revenue is derived from sales outside the United States, our sales in general, could be materially harmed by our inability to obtain required licenses or by the costs of compliance. The regulations related to our international sales are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Given the global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time consuming. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operation or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which prohibits U.S. based companies from engaging in bribery or prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. If we or any of our employees or agents are found to have violated these regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties. FCPA enforcement has increased significantly in recent years. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices could occur in the international countries in which we conduct business. We have implemented safeguards to prevent and discourage such practices by employees and agents. However, there can be no assurance, that employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which our Company would be held responsible. If employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, the Company could suffer significant penalties, legal expenses and other consequences that may have material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we suffer loss to our facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be negatively impacted. Our facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of our facilities were to undergo a catastrophic loss, it could interrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and could result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. 22 Table of Contents The recent earthquake and tsunami, and other collateral events, in Japan may adversely affect the demand for our products and services in the Japanese market, which may cause a decline in revenues and negatively affect our operating results. The March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and other collateral events, including among others, the nuclear reactor disaster, the catastrophic loss of lives, businesses, infrastructure and delays in transportation, may have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect negative impact on us by affecting our employees, customers, suppliers, or the overall economy in Japan and may reduce the demand for our products and services. As a result, these events could cause a decline in our revenue in Japan and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on single-source suppliers for some of our products, and the loss of these suppliers could harm our business by interrupting or terminating our manufacture of those products. We purchase a small number of parts from single-source suppliers and we generally have no long term contracts with any of our component suppliers or contract manufacturers. In particular, several key integrated circuits that we use are made by IBM and Toshiba. Although we have not experienced significant production delays attributable to supply changes, we believe that, for integrated circuits in particular, alternative sources of supply would be difficult to develop over a short period of time. Because we have no direct control over our third-party suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary parts or products, we may be unable to redesign or adapt our technology to work without such parts or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs or quality control problems and loss of revenues. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition or performance of key distributors could adversely impact our operating results and/or cash flows. We sell certain products through key distributors that have valuable relationships with our end customers. Adverse changes in our relationship could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue in certain markets and negatively impact our results of operations and/or cash flows. We depend upon key personnel and qualified future hires to implement our corporate strategy, and if we are unable to retain or attract personnel we may not be able to manage and operate successfully and we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of senior management and key employees in the sales, marketing, research and development, and manufacturing areas. Many of these employees would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment contracts with most of our key personnel. If we cannot retain existing key managers and employ additional qualified senior employees, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our personnel. Future expansion of operations will require us to attract, train and retain new personnel. In addition, we may be limited by non-solicitation agreements entered into by our key personnel with respect to hiring employees from our competitors. These factors could increase our operating expenses. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual and proprietary rights, which would deprive us of a competitive advantage and thereby negatively impact our ability to compete. As a technology-based company, our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely generally on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and abroad. Electronic equipment as complex as most of our products, however, is generally not patentable in its entirety. We also license intellectual property from third parties and rely on those parties to maintain and protect their technology. We cannot 23 Table of Contents be certain that actions we take to establish and protect proprietary rights will be adequate, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for protected technology from third parties, it may be difficult to design alternatives to such technology without incurring significant costs. Thus, the loss of intellectual property rights to technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or take action against others with regard to intellectual property rights. Even where we are successful in defending or pursuing such claims, we may incur significant costs. In the event of a successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to needed technology or be required to pay license fees for the infringed rights, either of which could have an adverse impact on our business. We license certain intellectual property from third parties, and the loss of these licenses could delay development of future products or prevent the sale or enhancement of existing products. We rely on licenses of intellectual property for our businesses, including technology used in our products. We cannot ensure that these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. The loss of these licenses or the ability to maintain any of them on acceptable terms could delay development of future products or prevent the further sale or enhancement of existing products. Such loss could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our Protocol Solutions Group outsources a portion of its research and development activities to a third party in a foreign jurisdiction; the failure of this third party to adequately protect our proprietary rights in the technologies developed for us by this third party or a change in the laws of its jurisdiction may result in the loss of those proprietary rights. Our Protocol Solutions Group currently outsources a portion of its research and development activities to a third party engineering firm located in Malaysia. We do not have any long-term contractual commitment from this engineering firm to continue to provide such services. The discontinuance of such services on short notice or any significant cost increases in the services they provide could harm our results of operations and cash flows, as well as slow our introduction of new products. In addition, the failure of this engineering firm to adequately protect our proprietary rights in the technologies developed by this firm, including the failure to comply with the intellectual property laws of Malaysia, may result in the loss of some or all of the proprietary rights in such technologies. In addition, any changes in the laws of Malaysia could also result in the loss of some or all of the proprietary rights in technologies developed in that country. It may also be more difficult to obtain a judgment enforcing our intellectual property rights in Malaysia than in the United States. Strategic alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible strategic alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions. The recently completed transaction with Bogatin Enterprises, L.L.C. or other transactions that we may consummate in the future may cause our financial results to differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter and year. In addition, strategic alliances and acquisitions may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing products of a strategic alliance, joint venture or acquisition in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity, a successful partnership depends on a variety of factors, including: • the retention of key employees; • the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; • the retention of key customers; and • the integration or coordination of different research and development, product manufacturing and sales programs and facilities. 24 Table of Contents Any impairment of the value of purchased assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, Convertible notes valuation and stock price could be negatively impacted. We may not be able to obtain the capital we need to maintain or grow our business and refinance existing debt as it matures. Our ability to execute our long-term strategy may depend, to a significant degree, on our ability to retain or obtain long-term debt and equity capital. We have no commitments for additional borrowings at this time, other than our $75.0 million revolving credit facility, which was entered into on August 8, 2011 with RBS Citizens, N.A. (“RBS”), and the other lenders party thereto, which is subject to financial covenants. The Credit Agreement matures August 8, 2016 and includes the right to increase the total revolving commitment to $90.0 million at any time prior to the maturity date, upon meeting certain covenants and conditions. We cannot determine the precise amount and timing of our funding needs at this time. We may be unable to obtain future additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to comply with certain covenants relating to our indebtedness, we may need to refinance our indebtedness or repay it. Pursuant to our Credit Agreement with RBS and other syndicated lenders, we granted the banks a security interest in all of the domestic assets of LeCroy and its domestic subsidiaries. Under certain conditions, the lending commitments under the Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders and amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated. The following factors and others could affect our ability to retain our existing financing arrangements and to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all and could impact the satisfaction of covenants under our existing debt: • our results of operations and cash flows; • general economic conditions, and conditions in our industry; • the perception in the global credit and capital markets of our business; • the credit availability and/or financial condition of potential lenders; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • risk of greater exposure to variable interest rates, and its effect on our results of operations and cash flows; • our business prospects; and • changes in interest rates and foreign exchange. In fiscal 2009, the U.S. and global credit and equity markets underwent significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Although the market has improved, uncertainty in the market currently exists and if these conditions worsen, the Company’s cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for the Company’s operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. Also, the Company could be required to reduce its total debt outstanding and availability under the Credit Agreement may be restricted or withdrawn. In addition, the Company’s borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on 25 Table of Contents the Company’s performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase the Company’s cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for it to obtain financing. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures and reduce research and development expenditures, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the economy or our industry. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business results, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have a credit facility that contains financial covenants, and the failure to comply with these covenants could harm our financial condition because our credit facility may be unavailable to us or our total debt may have to be reduced. We are subject to financial covenants under our $75.0 million credit facility. Failure to comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility would cause us to be in default under the facility, which could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness. The acceleration of our indebtedness under the credit facility would adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The acceleration of our indebtedness under the credit facility would also likely cause an acceleration of the indebtedness due under our notes. Additionally, although the Company does not anticipate needing additional capital in the near term due to our available credit and current financial position, a financial market disruption may make it difficult to raise additional capital, if needed, on acceptable terms or at all. We are significantly leveraged as a result of the sale of the notes. We may incur additional costs to redeem or repurchase the outstanding principal at the mandatory redemption date of October 15, 2011. In connection with the October 2006 sale of our 4.00% Convertible Senior Notes, we have principal indebtedness of $29.7 million. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt and do not restrict certain corporate actions such as the payment of dividends and issuance of new debt. None of our subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under, or have any obligation to pay amounts due on, the notes. As a result, the notes are “structurally subordinated” to all indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables and lease obligations, of our existing and future subsidiaries (unless such indebtedness is by its terms subordinated to the notes). In addition, the notes are not secured by any of our assets or those of our subsidiaries. As a result, the notes are effectively subordinated to our $75.0 million credit facility and any secured debt that we, including our subsidiaries, incur. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or upon acceleration of the notes, payment on the notes could be less, ratably, than on any secured indebtedness. We may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the notes then outstanding. At July 2, 2011, the Company had zero in net borrowings, excluding the notes. Our subsidiaries had trade payables and other accrued liabilities (excluding obligations that are inter-company in nature) of approximately $7.6 million in the aggregate. In addition, the indenture does not restrict us, including any of our subsidiaries, from paying dividends or issuing or repurchasing securities. If we, including our subsidiaries, were to incur additional debt or liabilities, our 26 Table of Contents ability to pay our obligations on the notes could be adversely affected. Certain of our other debt instruments may, however, restrict these and other actions. We may be unable to repay, repurchase or redeem the convertible notes. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the notes will become due and payable by us. Upon a designated event, as defined in the indenture, or on each of October 15, 2011, October 15, 2016 and October 15, 2021, or upon conversion, the holders may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the notes at a repurchase price of 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of the repurchase of the notes. We cannot assure the note holders that we will have enough funds or be able to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal at maturity or to repurchase the notes upon a designated event. Our failure to repay the notes at maturity or to repurchase tendered notes upon a designated event or on each of October 15, 2011, October 15, 2016 and October 15, 2021, would constitute an event of default under the indenture that governs the notes and may also constitute an event of default under any other indenture or other agreement governing then-existing indebtedness, which could prevent us from repaying the notes. If a designated event occurred and accelerated our other indebtedness, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient financial resources, or be able to arrange for additional financing, to repay the principal amount at maturity. The change in control feature of the notes could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such an acquisition would be beneficial to the note holders and our stockholders. Our obligation to offer to repurchase the notes upon a designated event would not necessarily afford protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. Holders of notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but will be subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. Holders of notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock), but will be subject to all changes affecting the common stock. Holders will only be entitled to rights on the common stock if and when we deliver shares of common stock, in exchange for the notes and in limited cases under the anti-dilution adjustments of the notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our certification of incorporation or by-laws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determine the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery of the common stock, note holders will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although they will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock. Conversion of the notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including stockholders who had previously converted their notes. The conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock, to the extent we choose not to deliver all cash for the conversion value in excess of the principal amount, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or facilitate trading strategies involving the notes and our common stock. Issuance of shares in connection with financing transactions or under stock plans will dilute current stockholders. Pursuant to our stock plans, our management is authorized to grant restricted stock awards or stock options to our employees, directors and consultants. Our stockholders will incur dilution upon exercise of any outstanding stock options. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock under our current shelf registration, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. 27 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions under our charter document and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company that our stockholders might consider favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws allow us to: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; • prohibit stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. We are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, resulting in, but not limited to, delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving the Company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Any of these results could adversely affect the price of our common stock and, therefore, the price of our notes. We may in the future issue shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, and are further limited to pay dividends under our Credit Agreement, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. For the foreseeable future, it is expected that earnings, if any, generated from our operations will be used to finance the growth of our business and repay existing debt, and that no dividends will be paid to holders of the common stock. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee our common stock will appreciate in value. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations and products are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or noncompliance with environmental permits. Our former subsidiary, Digitech Industries, Inc., has been involved in environmental remediation activities, the liability for which was retained by us and the estimated remediation cost was reserved for after the sale of the Vigilant Networks business and the residual assets of Digitech. Any liability beyond what is currently expected and reserved for could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing 28 Table of Contents government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. We must successfully execute our strategy to introduce new products. One of our key strategies is to expand our addressable portion of the oscilloscope and protocol analysis markets by introducing new products such as high-end oscilloscopes and protocol exercisers and probes. We have, in the past, withdrawn product lines due to implementation and financial concerns. The success of our new product offerings will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to identify customers’ existing and future needs properly and quickly, timely perform the necessary research and development to define and create the products, timely manufacture and deliver the products that address these needs in sufficient volumes, differentiate the offerings from competitors’ offerings, price products competitively and anticipate competitors’ development of new products or technological innovations. Without the timely introduction of competitive products, our products may become technologically obsolete. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product announcements and introductions and changing industry standards. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly skilled engineering and development personnel, qualification of and coordination with suppliers, and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Consequently, product development delays are typical in our industry. If we fail to introduce competitive products in a timely manner, customers may defer placing orders in anticipation of future releases or may purchase products from competitors. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • unanticipated engineering complexities; • difficulties with or delays by contract manufacturers or suppliers of key components or technologies; • difficulties in allocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products may become technologically obsolete, in which case our operating results and cash flows could suffer. If we devote resources to developing products for emerging communications standards that ultimately are not widely accepted, our business could be harmed. Our future growth depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, manufacture and sell in volume advanced verification systems for existing, emerging and yet unforeseen communications standards. We have little or no control over the conception, development or adoption of new standards. Moreover, even in relation to currently emerging standards, the markets are rapidly evolving and we have virtually no ability to impact the adoption of those standards. As a result, there is significant uncertainty as to whether markets for new and emerging standards ultimately will develop at all or, if they do develop, their potential size or future growth rate. We may incur significant expenses and dedicate significant time and resources to develop products for standards that fail to gain broad acceptance. Failure of a standard for which we devote substantial resources to gain widespread acceptance would likely harm our corporate growth strategies. If we fail to maintain and expand our relationships with the core or promoter companies in our target markets, we may have difficulty developing and marketing certain protocol analyzer products. It is important to our success that we establish, maintain and expand our relationships with technology and infrastructure leader companies developing emerging communications standards in our target markets. We must 29 Table of Contents work closely with these companies to gain valuable insights into new market demands, obtain early access to standards as they develop and help us design new or enhanced products. Generally, we do not enter into contracts obligating these companies to work or share their technology. Industry leaders could choose to work with other companies in the future. If we fail to establish, maintain and expand our industry relationships, we could lose first-mover advantage with respect to emerging standards and it would likely be more difficult for us to develop and market products that address these standards. We operate in highly competitive industry and this competition could reduce our market share and harm our business. The Test and Measurement industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and continual advances in technology and has been subject to consolidation. Competitors include Tektronix, a division of Danaher Corporation, Agilent, JDS Uniphase, Rigol Technologies, Inc., Yokogawa Electric Corporation, Iwatsu Electric Company Ltd., National Instruments and Rohde & Schwarz International, among others. A number of our competitors have substantially greater sales and marketing, development and financial resources. We believe that our competitors offer a wide range of products that attempt to address most sectors for oscilloscopes and protocol analyzers. We expect that competition will continue to be intense and that our competitors’ products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features. In addition, lower barriers to entry for certain products segments result in introducing new technologies and new and growing competitors to challenge our offerings. We also believe that further consolidation in the Test and Measurement industry could result in our competitors increasing their market share through business combinations. We believe that the principal bases of competition in the oscilloscope and protocol analyzer sectors include, among others, a product’s performance, its price and quality, the vendor’s name recognition and reputation, product availability and the quality of post-sale support. If any of our competitors surpass us or are perceived to have surpassed us with respect to one or more of these factors, we may lose customers. We also believe that our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain and develop the advanced technology used in our oscilloscope products and protocol analyzers and our ability to offer high-performance products timely and at a favorable “price-to-performance” ratio. We cannot assure that we will continue to compete effectively and successfully. We may be unable to comply with NASDAQ listing standards. Our business has been and may continue to be affected by worldwide macroeconomic factors, which include uncertainties in the credit and capital markets. External factors that affect our stock price, such as liquidity requirements of our investors, as well as our performance, could impact our market capitalization, revenue and operating results, which could result in our failure to remain in compliance with the NASDAQ’s listing standards for market value or equity value or total assets and total revenue. If our stock price declines to the point where our compliance with the listing standard relating to market capitalization is in jeopardy, we will consider such actions, including equity issuances, as we deem appropriate under the circumstances. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”). U.S. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant impact on our reported results and how we report our financial position and cash flows. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates”). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by 30 Table of Contents their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that could lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. Our business and operating results could be adversely impacted by ineffective internal controls. The internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required, new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments to be reported pursuant to Item 1B. 