ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us in the future. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements found in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our declining revenue over the past several years combined with our recent history of operating losses and low balance of cash on hand have raised substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our declining revenue over the past several years combined with our operating losses over the past several years and our cash balance of only $1.8 million as of December 31, 2010, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 with respect to this uncertainty. If we are unable to generate sufficient income from our operations, our ability to continue as a going concern will require us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. The perception of our ability to continue as a going concern may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. We may be unable to return to profitability and may need to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations. If we do not return to profitability or our financing efforts are not successful, we may not be able to continue our operations. We experienced a net loss of approximately $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and as of December 31, 2010, had cash and cash equivalents on hand of approximately $1.8 million. Management believes that its existing cash and cash equivalents, expected renewals and new business are sufficient to fund operations for the next 12 months. However, we can provide no assurances that we will obtain sufficient renewals or new businesses to return the business to profitability, especially since we have experienced net losses and decreasing cash balances over the past several years. If we are unable to return to profitability through our marketing and sales efforts, or if unanticipated circumstances arise which could result in our needing additional capital sooner than anticipated, such as unexpected costs associated with our product development and sales and marketing efforts, we will be required to find additional financing sources. There is no assurance that financing will be available from any source, that it will be available on terms acceptable to us, or that any future offering of securities will be successful. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, there may be a significant dilution in the value of our outstanding common stock. If we need to raise additional funds, but are unable to do so, we may be required to curtail or cease our operations. Adverse economic and market conditions may result in further budgetary constraints within the defense and intelligence communities, as well as a downturn in spending on real-time collaboration solutions by other users, that could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Unfavorable changes in economic and market conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes, may result in further budgetary constraints on governmental users, and lower spending by commercial, consumer and institutional users of real-time collaboration solutions. If demand for real-time collaboration products declines significantly, or government or corporate spending for those products declines, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. There is no assurance that, if operations were to deteriorate and additional financing were to become necessary, we would be able to obtain financing in amounts sufficient to meet operating requirements or at terms which are satisfactory and which allow us to remain competitive. 9 The continued redirection of budget funds and increased competition within our Department of Defense customer base would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We believe our revenue has declined due to redirections of the IT budget by the Defense Information Systems Agency (the “DISA”) to competing solutions selected for the Net-Centric Enterprise Services (“NCES”) programs. While we believe that there are potential opportunities for limited recovery and new sales in our existing DoD customer base, we will continue to face severe difficulties in this market due to such redirection of budget funds and the promotion of competing solutions by the DISA, including a collaborative product being sponsored and offered free by the DISA to these customers. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to a small number of major customers, none of whom is obligated to continue to use our products and services. While we are focusing efforts on broadening our customer base, sales to a relatively small number of customers within the U.S. government, specifically within the DoD and the intelligence community, have accounted for a significant portion of revenue. Sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 63%, 13% and 13%, respectively, of total revenue in 2010, and 56%, 16% and 6%, respectively, of total revenue in 2009. This concentration of customers may cause revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on major customers’ requirements, and the timing of their orders and shipments. Our agreements with customers generally do not include minimum purchase commitments or exclusivity arrangements. Our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if any present major customer were to reduce its level of orders, change to another vendor, realize a reduction in approved funding for collaborative technologies, or delay paying or fail to pay amounts due to us. Loss of access to certain third-party technology utilized in our products could materially harm our business. We utilize certain technology which we license from third parties, including software which is integrated with internally developed software, and use in our products to perform key functions. There can be no assurance that functionally similar technology will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. In April 2007, we entered into a new agreement with Microsoft Corporation to extend an existing software distribution license agreement through December 2008. This agreement was subsequently amended to, among other things, extend its payment terms through June 2011. This software distribution license agreement allows us to integrate Microsoft’s Live Communication software with our proprietary software, to create InfoWorkSpace. Loss of access to this third-party technology, whether due to termination or expiration of the agreement with Microsoft or the failure to renew the agreement, would result in material harm to our business and results of operations. We are currently in discussions with Microsoft Corporation for activities after June 2011 and have agreed in principal to an extension of the agreement for three years once the 2011 payment schedule has been completed. Our success depends upon market acceptance of our collaboration products. Sales of real-time collaboration products account for all of our revenue. As a result, our success depends on the acceptance and the rate of adoption of Internet-based collaboration products, in general, and our InfoWorkSpace product, in particular. We can provide no assurance that any of the markets for our products will develop to the extent, in the manner, or at the rate anticipated by us. In particular, while our sales have historically been within certain organizations of the U.S. government and intelligence community, we are pursuing the sale of our products in the commercial market as well. There can be no assurance of success in the commercial market for InfoWorkSpace and MxM Secure, or other products that we may introduce in 2011 or beyond. In addition, future prices that we are able to obtain for our products may decrease as a result of new product introductions by others, price competition, technological change or other factors. 10 If we are unable to adapt to the rapid pace of change in our market, our business could be adversely affected. Our market is characterized by changing technology, emerging industry standards, evolving network developments and product introductions. The adoption rate of new technologies and products may adversely impact near-term growth of the conferencing market as users evaluate the alternatives. For 2011 we plan to continue investments in the enhancement and development of our current and new products to address the evolving technology landscape. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to maintain technological leadership through continued investments, to enhance our existing product offerings, and to develop new products that achieve market acceptance. Our results of operations would suffer if we are unable to effectively compete in the market for multimedia collaboration products. The market for multimedia collaboration products is highly competitive. A number of companies have introduced competitive products. Furthermore, the market may attract new entrants. Some competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources. If we were unable to retain our existing customers, or convince a sufficient number of new customers to adopt our collaborative software products over competitive alternatives, our financial results would suffer. The principal competitive factors in the market for multimedia collaboration are, and are expected to continue to be, breadth of capabilities, demonstrated interoperability, price, performance, network management capabilities, reliability, scalability, customer support and security. We plan to compete by offering collaboration and enterprise products with a broad range of capabilities and high performance. However, we cannot be certain that potential customers will be attracted to our products, especially if competitors were to invest substantially more money into their products and technology. If we release products containing defects or experience delays in releasing new products, our competitive position could be adversely effected. As part of our strategy, we expect to release new products and new versions of our existing products. Even if our new versions of existing products contain the features and functionality that our customers desire, if we are unable to timely introduce these new products or product releases, our competitive position will be harmed. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to successfully complete the development of currently planned or future products or product releases in a timely manner or at all. Also, due to the complexity of our products, internal quality assurance testing and customer testing of pre-commercial releases may reveal product performance issues or desirable product enhancements that could cause delays in development and release of future products or current upgrades of our existing products. We may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights which could result in the loss of a competitive advantage. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry depends, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology under patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. We cannot assure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate, or that others will not develop technologies similar or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to protect our proprietary rights. Also, we may become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the future. We cannot assure that, if made, these claims will not be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any judgment against us could require substantial payment in damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain products. 11 The loss of or failure to retain or attract talented directors, officers and personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continuing contributions of our key management, sales, marketing, and research and development personnel, some of whom would be difficult to replace, including Khoa Nguyen, our Chief Executive Officer and Peter Janke, our President. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our employees, including Mr. Nguyen and Mr. Janke. We do not have employment contracts with our key personnel other than Mr. Nguyen. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to retain and attract such key employees. As the result of our diminishing financial resources, our workforce has been reduced by approximately one-half since December 31, 2006, from 47 to 25 as of December 31, 2010, and in March 2011, we further reduced our headcount from 25 employees to 13 employees. As a result, our ability to continue many activities has been impaired, which in turn may prevent or further delay our return to profitability and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we have five directors on our Board of Directors, three of whom meet the standards for independence as specified by the SEC and the national stock exchanges. Historically, we have strived to have an audit committee comprised of at least three independent directors, as required by the national stock exchanges. Currently, we have three directors serving on our audit committee. We are continuing in our attempts to identify additional qualified individuals to serve as independent directors. However, highly-qualified individuals may not be available or willing to serve as directors and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, recruit and ultimately secure the services of such individuals in a timely manner or at all. The trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, which may adversely affect our business, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is highly volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, or other events or factors. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. Due to this volatility, investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, making it a less liquid investment than if it were traded on a national securities exchange. The shares of our common stock were delisted from The Nasdaq National Market in August 2003 and are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of our stock due to low trading volume or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our stock. In addition, we are subject to Rule 15c2-11 promulgated by the SEC (“Rule 15c2-11”). If we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule (for example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act), various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by Rule 15c2-11 to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, Rule 15c2-11 may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of stockholders to sell the securities in the secondary market. The listing of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may make it more difficult for investors to trade in our securities, which could lead to further declines in our share price. Trading our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board also makes it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, as we may incur additional costs under state blue sky laws if we were to sell additional securities. 12 Provisions of Delaware law, our charter and by-laws may make a takeover more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and Board of Directors. We also have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 