ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements found in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 8 Table of Contents Recent adverse economic and market conditions may result in further budgetary constraints within the defense and intelligence communities, as well as a downturn in spending on real-time collaboration solutions by other users, that could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Unfavorable changes in economic and market conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes, may result in further budgetary constraints on governmental users, and lower spending by commercial, consumer and institutional users, of real-time collaboration solutions. If demand for real-time collaboration products declines significantly, or government or corporate spending for those products declines, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. The adverse effects of any sustained downturn in spending on our operating results may be exacerbated by our investment in expanding our sales, service, engineering, and marketing organizations, which may continue despite any such downturn. There is no assurance that, if operations were to deteriorate and additional financing were to become necessary, we would be able to obtain financing in amounts sufficient to meet operating requirements or at terms which are satisfactory and which allow us to remain competitive. We may be unable to return to profitability. As further described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, despite our net loss in 2008, management believes that its existing cash and other resources are sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we can provide no assurances that we will achieve our goal of consistent quarterly revenue and profit growth, both of which are largely dependent on whether we can meet our future new order bookings targets. If we are unable to secure new orders, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and may not be able to return to profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to a small number of major customers, none of whom is obligated to continue to use our products and services. While we are focusing efforts on broadening our customer base, sales to a relatively small number of customers within the U.S. government, specifically within the DoD and the intelligence community, have accounted for a significant portion of revenue. This concentration of customers may cause revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on major customers’ requirements, and the timing of their orders and shipments. Our agreements with customers generally do not include minimum purchase commitments or exclusivity arrangements. Our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if any present major customer were to reduce its level of orders, change to another vendor, realize a reduction in approved funding for collaborative technologies, or delay paying or fail to pay amounts due to us. The continued redirection of budget funds and increased competition within our Department of Defense customer base would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We believe our revenue has declined due to the redirections of the IT budget by DISA to competing solutions selected for the Net-Centric Enterprise Services (NCES) programs. We believe that, while there are potential opportunities for limited recovery and new sales in our existing DOD customer base, the redirection of budget funds and the promotion of competing solutions by DISA will continue to result in the reduction of renewals and elimination of new purchases of IWS by our customers, thereby creating losses within our core business. Coupled with the currently difficult economic conditions which lengthen the business development and sales activities on the commercial segment, we anticipate continued downward pressure on revenue and profitability for the foreseeable future. 9 Table of Contents Loss of access to certain third-party technology utilized in our products could materially harm our business. We utilize certain technology which we license from third parties, including software which is integrated with internally developed software, and use in our products to perform key functions. There can be no assurance that functionally similar technology will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. In April 2007 we entered into a new agreement with Microsoft Corporation to extend an existing software distribution license agreement through December 2008. This agreement was subsequently amended to, among other things, extend its payment terms through June 2011. This software distribution license agreement allows us to integrate Microsoft’s Live Communication software with our proprietary software, to create IWS. Loss of access to this third-party technology could result in material harm to our business and results of operations. Our success depends upon market acceptance of our collaboration products. Sales of real-time collaboration products account for substantially all of our revenue. As a result, our success depends on the acceptance and the rate of adoption of Internet-based collaboration products, in general, and our IWS product, in particular. We can provide no assurance that any of the markets for our products will develop to the extent, in the manner, or at the rate anticipated by us. In particular, while our sales have historically been within certain organizations of the U.S. government and intelligence community, we are pursuing the sale of our products in the commercial market as well. There can be no assurance of success in the commercial market for IWS, or other products that we may introduce in 2009 or beyond. In addition, future prices that we are able to obtain for our products may decrease as a result of new product introductions by others, price competition, technological change or other factors. If we are unable to adapt to the rapid pace of change in our market, our business could be adversely affected. Our market is characterized by changing technology, emerging industry standards, evolving network developments and product introductions. The adoption rate of new technologies and products may adversely impact near-term growth of the conferencing market as users evaluate the alternatives. For 2009 we plan to continue investments in the enhancement and development of our current and new products to address the evolving technology landscape. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability through continued investments to maintain technological leadership, to enhance our existing product offerings, and to develop new products that achieve market acceptance. Our results of operations would suffer if we are unable to effectively compete in the market for multimedia collaboration products. The market for multimedia collaboration products is highly competitive. A number of companies have introduced competitive products. Furthermore, the market may attract new entrants. Some competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources. If we were unable to retain our existing customers, or convince a sufficient number of new customers to adopt our collaborative software products over competitive alternatives, our financial results would suffer. The principal competitive factors in the market for multimedia collaboration are, and should continue to be, breadth of capabilities, demonstrated interoperability, price, performance, network management capabilities, reliability, scalability, customer support and security. We plan to compete by offering collaboration and enterprise products with a broad range of capabilities and high performance. However, we cannot be certain that potential customers will be attracted to our products, especially if competitors were to invest substantially more money into their products and technology. 10 Table of Contents If we release products containing defects or experience delays in releasing new products, our competitive position could be adversely effected. As part of our strategy, we expect to release new products and new versions of our existing products. Even if our new versions of existing products contain the features and functionality that our customers desire, if we are unable to timely introduce these new products or product releases, our competitive position will be harmed. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to successfully complete the development of currently planned or future products or product releases in a timely manner. Also, due to the complexity of our products, internal quality assurance testing and customer testing of pre-commercial releases may reveal product performance issues or desirable product enhancements that could cause delays in development and release of future products or current upgrades of our existing products. The loss of or failure to retain or attract talented directors, officers and personnel could harm our business. Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continuing contributions of our key management, sales, marketing, and research and development personnel, some of whom would be difficult to replace, including Khoa Nguyen, our Chief Executive Officer and President. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our employees, including Mr. Nguyen. We do not have employment contracts with our key personnel other than Mr. Nguyen. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to retain and attract such key employees. Currently, we have five directors on our Board of Directors, three of whom meet the standards for independence as specified by the SEC and the national stock exchanges. Historically, we have strived to have an audit committee comprised of at least three independent directors, as required by the national stock exchanges. Currently, we have two directors serving on our audit committee. We are continuing in our attempts to identify additional qualified individuals to serve as independent directors. However, highly-qualified individuals may not be available or willing to serve as directors and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, recruit and ultimately secure the services of such individuals in a timely manner or at all. The trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, which may adversely affect our business, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is highly volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, or other events or factors. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. Due to this volatility, investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, making it a less liquid investment than if it were traded on a national securities exchange. The shares of our common stock were delisted from The Nasdaq National Market in August 2003 and are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of our stock due to low trading volume or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our stock. In addition, we are subject to Rule 15c2-11 promulgated by the SEC. If we fail to meet criteria set forth in such Rule (for example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act), various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of stockholders to sell the securities in the secondary market. The listing of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may make it more difficult for investors to trade in our securities, which could lead to further declines in our share price. Our shares being traded on the OTC Bulletin Board also makes it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, as we may incur addit ional costs under state blue-sky laws if we were to sell additional securities. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. 