ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements found in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Liquidity and history of losses. As further described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, management believes due to the growth and acceptance of our IWS product, the expected growth of Internet-based collaboration products in general, and our successive quarters of profitability and continued vigilance on cost control, that our cash and available resources will enable us to continue as a viable entity. However, we can provide no assurances that we will achieve our goal of consistent quarterly revenue and profit growth, both of which are largely dependent on whether we can meet our future new order bookings targets. Dependence on major customers. While we are focusing efforts on broadening our customer base, sales to a relatively small number of customers within the US government, specifically within the DoD and the intelligence community, have accounted for a significant portion of revenue. This concentration of customers may cause revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on major customers’ requirements, and the timing of their orders and shipments. Our agreements with customers generally do not include minimum purchase commitments or exclusivity arrangements. Our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if any present or future major customer were to choose to reduce its level of orders, were to change to another vendor for purchases of a similar product, were to realize a reduction in approved funding for collaborative technologies, or were to delay paying or fail to pay amounts due to us. Third Party Technology. Ezenia utilizes certain technology which it licenses from third parties, including software which is integrated with internally developed software, and used in the Company’s products to perform key functions. There can be no assurance that functionally similar technology will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. In particular, in February 2005 Ezenia entered into a new agreement with Microsoft Corporation to extend an existing software distribution license agreement through December 2007. The software distribution license agreement allows Ezenia to integrate Microsoft’s Live Communication software with our proprietary software, to create IWS. Reduced demand for traditional videoconferencing products. The demand for traditional videoconferencing technology has experienced a rapid decline. Ezenia’s videoconferencing product and related services revenue declined to approximately $87 thousand in 2006, from approximately $495 thousand in 2005 and approximately $633 thousand in 2004. We expect that sales of this legacy hardware technology will continue to decline in 2007. Evolving markets. Sales of real-time collaboration products account for a significant and increasing portion of Ezenia’s revenue. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the acceptance and the rate of adoption of Internet-based collaboration products, in general, and the IWS product, in particular. We can provide no assurance that any of the markets for our products will develop to the extent, in the manner, or at the rate anticipated by us. In addition, future prices that we are able to obtain for our products may decrease as a result of new product introductions by others, price competition, technological change or other factors. Rapid technological change. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging network architectures and frequent new product introductions. The adoption rate of new technologies and products may adversely impact near-term growth of the conferencing market as users evaluate the alternatives. We have invested, and for 2007 plan to continue to invest, in product development and products incorporating certain of these new technologies. Many other companies are also 10 developing products incorporating these new technologies that are competitive with our current and future offerings. Ezenia’s success will depend, in part, upon our ability through continued investments to maintain technological leadership, to enhance and expand our existing product offerings, and to select and develop in a timely manner new products that achieve market acceptance. Competition. The market for multimedia collaboration products is highly competitive. Ezenia expects competition to increase significantly in the future, as the market for similar products is expected to significantly expand. A number of companies have introduced products that could be competitive with Ezenia’s products, and the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which Ezenia competes may attract other new entrants, as they perceive opportunities. Some of Ezenia’s current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources. If we are unable to retain our existing customers in the US government, or were unable to convince a sufficient number of new companies or customers with an interest in collaborative technologies to adopt the IWS collaborative software product over alternative technologies marketed by our competitors, our financial results would suffer. The principal competitive factors in the market for multimedia collaboration are, and should continue to be, breadth of capabilities, demonstrated interoperability, price, performance, network management capabilities, reliability, scalability, customer support and security. Ezenia plans to compete by offering collaboration and enterprise products with a broad range of capabilities and high performance. However, we cannot be certain that potential customers will be attracted to our products, especially if competitors were to invest substantially more money into their products and technology. Acceptance of IWS in the commercial market. In 2001, Ezenia purchased the operating assets and intellectual property of the IWS business unit of General Dynamics Electronic Systems. We entered into the purchase agreement with the expectation that the transaction would result in certain benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to expanded and complementary product offerings, enhanced revenues, increased market opportunity, new technology, the addition of engineering personnel, and the expectation that we would be successful in expanding the market for IWS products, both within certain organizations of the US government, including the DoD and the intelligence community, but also commercially. There can be no assurance of success in the commercial market for IWS or other products that we may introduce, in 2007 or beyond. Protection of proprietary technology. Ezenia’s success depends, to a large extent, on its ability to protect its proprietary technology. Ezenia relies primarily on a combination of contractual rights, trade secrets and copyrights to protect its intellectual property rights, including the fully-paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable license granted by Tandberg to Ezenia for use in connection with its videoconferencing and enterprise collaboration products. Retention of key employees. Ezenia’s success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continuing contributions of its key management, sales, marketing, and research and development personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, including Khoa Nguyen, Ezenia’s Chief Executive Officer and President. Ezenia does not carry a key-man life insurance on any of its employees, including Mr. Nguyen. Ezenia does not have employment contracts with its key personnel other than Mr. Nguyen. Ezenia believes that its future success will depend in large part upon its ability to attract and retain such key employees. Stock price volatility. The market price of Ezenia’s common stock, like that of other technology companies, is highly volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by Ezenia or its competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors. Ezenia’s stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to Ezenia’s performance. Market for Company’s common equity. The shares of the Ezenia’s common stock were delisted from The Nasdaq National Market in August 2003 and are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of the securities due to low trading volume or obtain accurate quotations as 11 to the market value of the securities. In addition, Ezenia is subject to Rule 15c2-11 promulgated by the SEC. If Ezenia fails to meet criteria set forth in such Rule (for example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act), various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell Ezenia’s securities, which may materially affect the ability of shareholders to sell the securities in the secondary market. The delisting could make trading Ezenia’s shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in the share price. It would also make it more difficult for Ezenia to raise additional capital. Due to the delisting, Ezenia would also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if Ezenia were to sell equity. Board of director recruitment. Currently we have seven directors on our Board, six of whom meet the standards for independence as specified by the SEC and the national stock exchanges. Historically, we have strived to have an audit committee comprised of at least three independent directors, as required by the national stock exchanges. Currently we have four directors serving on our audit committee, all of whom meet the standards for independence as specified by the SEC. One of our directors, Gerald P. Carmen, has the necessary financial expertise to serve as chairman of our audit committee. We are continuing in our attempts to identify additional qualified individuals to serve as independent directors of Ezenia. However, the market for highly qualified individuals available and willing to serve as directors to companies similar to ours is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, recruit and ultimately secure the services of such individuals in a timely manner or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. ITEM 