Item 1A. Risk Factors The most significant risk factors affecting our business include the following: An increase in the use of alternative packaging as a substitute for the steel and plastic containers we sell could adversely affect our profitability. Our steel and plastic containers are used by our customers to package a diverse range of end-use products. A variety of substitute products are available to package these end-use products, including steel and plastics, and to a lesser extent, composites and flexible packaging containers. From time to time our customers, including some of our larger customers, have used such alternative methods to package their products. A widespread introduction of alternative packages by these or other companies as a substitute for steel or plastic containers could significantly reduce our sales to our customers. More generally, a decrease in the costs of substitute products, improvements in the performance characteristics of substitute products or the successful development or introduction of new substitute products could significantly reduce our customers’ orders and our profitability. Competition from other steel or plastic container manufacturers could significantly impact our profitability, as could an election by our customers to self-manufacture their steel or plastic container requirements. The container industries in which we do business are highly competitive and some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. The principal methods of competition in our industry include price, manufacturing capacity, manufacturing flexibility and quality. We may not be able to compete successfully with respect to any of these factors. Competition could force us to reduce our prices or could otherwise result in a loss of market share for our products. In addition, some manufacturers of products that are packaged in steel or plastic containers produce their own steel or plastic containers for their products. The election by some of our existing customers, or potential future customers, to manufacture their steel or plastic containers in-house could significantly impact our profitability. Our customer contracts generally allow our customers to change, and, in some cases, terminate their contracts on short notice. Some of our 2006 sales were made to customers with whom we have contractual relationships. Many of these contracts, which are often with our largest customers, are requirements contracts under which we supply a percentage of a customer’s requirements for our products over a period of time, without any specific commitment to unit volume. As such, we are not guaranteed any minimum level of net sales under many of our contracts and many of our customers are under no obligation to continue to purchase products from us. Moreover, if a customer’s requirements for our products exceeds our ability to supply that customer, as has occurred from time to time in the past, we may have a short-term or long-term inability to supply all of its requirements from our own manufacturing facilities and may be required to purchase containers from third parties or take other proactive steps in order to fill that customer’s order. Our inability to supply a customer’s specific requirements from our manufacturing facilities could materially adversely affect our relationship with that customer or otherwise increase our operating costs. In addition, many of our requirements contracts with our customers provide that the customer may receive competitive proposals for all or a portion of the products we furnish to the customer under the contract. We generally have the right to retain the customer’s business subject to the terms of the competitive proposal. If we match a competitive proposal, it may result in reduced sales prices for the products that are the subject of the competitive proposal. If we choose not to match a competitive proposal, we may lose the sales that were the subject of the competitive proposal. The loss of a key customer could have a significant negative impact on our sales and profitability. In 2006, approximately 34% of our net sales were to our top 10 customers. Sales to our largest customer accounted for approximately 15% of our 2006 net sales. The loss of, or major reduction in business from, one or more of our major customers could create excess capacity within our manufacturing facilities and could result in the erosion of our gross margins and our market share position. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team. Although we believe we could replace key employees in an orderly fashion should the need arise, the loss of any such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key-person insurance for any of our officers, employees or directors. Increases in the price of our raw materials or interruptions or shortages in the supply of raw materials could cause our production costs to increase, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our operations, including steel, resin, energy, various inks and coatings. We purchase all raw materials we require from outside sources, and 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements consolidate our steel and resin purchases among a select group of suppliers in an effort to leverage purchasing power. The availability and prices of our raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to new laws or regulations. For example, the United States previously imposed tariffs or quotas on imports of certain steel products and steel slabs. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be subject to shortages in supply, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers (including by reason of labor strikes or work stoppages at our suppliers’ plants), our inability to leverage our purchasing power as successfully as we have in the past, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Historically, we have generally been able to increase the price of our products to reflect increases in the price of steel and plastic resin, but we may not be able to do so in the future. We have generally not been able in the past to pass on any price increases to our customers in the prices of the raw materials, other than steel and plastic resin, that we utilize in our business. To the extent we are not able to leverage our purchasing power in the future as successfully as we have in the past, we are not able to increase the price of our products to reflect increases in the prices of raw materials or we experience any interruptions or shortages in the supply of raw materials, our operating costs could materially increase. Labor disruptions with a portion of our workforce which is unionized could decrease our profitability. At the end of 2006, approximately 23% of our hourly employees worked under various collective bargaining agreements. Two of our nine collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 47% of our unionized workforce, will become amendable in 2007. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we may not be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could impact our ability to satisfy our customers’ requirements. In particular, a labor dispute with either of the major unions representing employees in Cincinnati could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce aerosol containers and could result in a deterioration of that business. The agreement with our largest union at the Cincinnati facility becomes amendable in August 2007. In the event of a catastrophic loss of one of our manufacturing facilities, we may not be able to meet the volume requirements of our existing customers or fulfill the requirements of potential customers. We face the risk of a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of any of our facilities due to accident, terrorist attack, labor issues, weather conditions, other natural disasters or otherwise. Such a catastrophic loss could have a significant effect on our relationships with our customers, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we maintain insurance covering our manufacturing facilities, including business interruption insurance, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all of our losses in the event of a catastrophic loss of any of our manufacturing facilities. In addition, such insurance, including business interruption insurance, could in the future become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Under certain circumstances, we are required under our credit facility to utilize the proceeds of any casualty insurance, but not business interruption insurance, to repay outstanding indebtedness under the senior credit facility rather than to reinvest such proceeds in rebuilding any such facility. Our business may be subject to significant environmental investigation, remediation and compliance costs. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from the release of hazardous substances. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws, though future expenditures may be necessary in order to maintain such compliance. In addition, in the course of our operations, we use, store and dispose of hazardous substances. Some of our current and former facilities are currently involved in environmental investigations and remediation resulting from releases of hazardous substances or the presence of other constituents. While we do not believe that any investigation or remediation obligations that we have identified will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, many of our facilities have a history of industrial usage for which investigation and remediation obligations could arise in the future and which could require us to make material expenditures or otherwise materially affect the way we operate our business. For further discussion of existing environmental issues relating to us, see “Environmental, Health and Safety Matters” in Item 1. Our revenues or operating costs could be adversely affected by product liability or product recall costs involving our products or products of our customers. We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims, however, if any of our products, such as the coatings we apply to certain containers through our material center services business, are alleged to have resulted in personal injury or death, or property damage, based, for example, on alleged product defect. Although we do maintain product liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover any losses related to a product liability claim brought against us. Furthermore, products liability insurance could in the future become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance and should we be required to initiate a product recall, such a recall could have a significant impact on our results of operations or cash flows. In addition, several leading paint manufacturers are defendants in various lawsuits, including class-action tort litigation brought by public entities, concerning exposure of children to lead-based paint applied thirty or more years ago, as well as alleging that lead pigment in paint constitutes a public nuisance requiring abatement. While we do not believe that any of these lawsuits has resulted in an adverse verdict against any of these defendants, this or similar product liability related 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements litigation could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of certain of our customers in the future, including our paint container customers. To the extent our orders decrease or we are unable to collect receivables from customers due to the effects of product liability litigation on our customers, including the lead-based paint litigation referred to above, our results of operations could be unfavorably affected. One of our subsidiaries, Armstrong Containers, Inc. (“Armstrong”), has been joined as a defendant in some of the lead-based paint litigation based upon allegations of its corporate predecessor’s conduct that predated our ownership of Armstrong. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” below. We may not succeed in our strategy of pursuing selective acquisitions. We intend to continue to evaluate and selectively pursue acquisitions that we believe are strategically important based on their potential to: (i) meet our customers’ needs; (ii) increase cash flow; (iii) diversify our product and customer base in related markets; and (iv) broaden our geographic sales, distribution and manufacturing platform throughout the United States and Canada. However, we may not be able to locate or acquire suitable acquisition candidates at attractive cash flow multiples consistent with our strategy, and we may not be able to fund future acquisitions because of limitations relating to our indebtedness or otherwise. In addition, to the extent that we make any acquisition in the future, our failure to integrate the acquired business successfully could significantly impair our results of operations. A disruption or failure in our computer systems could significantly disrupt our operations and impose significant costs on us. A significant part of our information technology systems used in connection with our internal operations is centralized in our Atlanta, Georgia headquarters. In addition, other parts of our information technology systems are outsourced to third-party hosting vendors. We rely in the regular course of business on the proper operation of our information technology systems. Any disruption or failure of our Atlanta-based or outsourced information technology systems could significantly disrupt our operations and impose significant costs on us. We are controlled by affiliates of Kelso, and their interests as equity holders may conflict with the interests of our noteholders. Certain private equity funds affiliated with Kelso own a substantial majority of our common stock. The Kelso affiliates are able to elect a majority of our directors, appoint new management and approve any action requiring the vote of our outstanding common stock, including the amendment of our certificate of incorporation, mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by the Kelso affiliates will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock and incur additional debt. The interests of Kelso and its affiliates may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our noteholders. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our equity holders might conflict with your interests as a noteholder. In addition, our equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transaction might involve risks to holders of the Senior Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 