D. Risk Factors As of the date of this 20-F, the risk factors that are specific to the Company include those set out below. The Company may face additional risks and uncertainties other than the factors set out below, including, risks and uncertainties that are unknown to the Company or risks and uncertainties that the Company now believes to be unimportant which could have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company could be negatively affected. Limited Operating History and Working Capital Deficiency. As of June 30, 2008, the Company had a post-Acquisition working capital deficiency of $296,877. The Company has a limited operating history as a combined 3 company and no history of earnings as a combined company. Prior to the Amalgamation, the Company had limited success generating sufficient operating revenues to finance its day-to-day operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever achieve significant revenues or profitable operations. The Company has not paid any dividends on common shares and is unlikely to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Limited Financial Resources. The Company has and likely will continue to have limited financial resources. Additional financing may be required which, if available, may not be available on favourable terms or could serve to dilute existing equity. Lack of any necessary additional financing could impair the Company’s future growth. Failure of the Company to obtain additional future financing could cause the Company to forfeit its interest in its product and reduce or terminate its operations. Growth Related Risks. The Company may be subject to growth related risks including capacity constraints and pressure on its internal systems and controls. Any inability by the Company to deal with growth could have a material adverse impact on its business, operations and prospects. Intellectual Property. The success of the Company will depend, in part, on the ability to protect its proprietary information relating to its wireless products, structured buildings and aviation products and related manufacturing equipment and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. The products being developed by the Company are capable of being duplicated or improved upon by competitors and accordingly, the Company may be vulnerable to competitors which develop competing products, whether independently or as a result of acquiring access to the Company’s proprietary products or trade secrets. If this occurs, then the Company may incur legal costs in actions to protect its proprietary interests or to defend itself in suits brought by others against the Company pertaining to such matters. Laws and Regulations. The construction and aviation industry in Canada and in the United States is subject to various national, regional and local laws and regulations governing taxes, labour, safety, protection of the environment and other matters. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing the operations and activities of companies such as the Company, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have an adverse impact on the Company. The Company intends to distribute its products and services through distributors in North America and other countries and as a result foreign laws should be considered as potential risk. Licenses and Permits. The operations and products of the Company may require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to successfully carry out sales of its products in those jurisdictions requiring such licenses and permits. Environmental Risks and Other Regulatory Requirements. The current or future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production will likely require permits from various federal and local authorities in such operations and will be governed by laws and regulations governing development, production, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, handling toxic substances, land use, environmental protection and other matters. There can be no assurance that all permits which the Company may require will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations would not have an adverse affect. Conflicts of Interest. Some of the directors of the Company are or may become directors and/or shareholders of other companies, and situations may arise in which there may be potential conflicts of interests. Any decisions made by any director of the Company in respect of a situation where there is such a conflict of interest will be made in accordance with his or her duty to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company, after having disclosed his or her interest to the Company, and after giving consideration to, among other matters, the Company’s objectives, working capital requirements and its ability to adequately finance such new opportunities. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in currency exchange losses. A portion of the Company’s revenues and expenses will be denominated in United States dollars. Therefore, fluctuations in the Canadian dollar exchange rate will impact our results of operations and financial condition from period to period. In addition, such fluctuations affect the translation of our results for purposes of our consolidated financial statements. The Company’s currency hedging activities (if any) may not be successful. 4 Debts/Obligations of Hypernetics and Triodetic. The completion of the Acquisition and the amalgamation resulted in the Company being responsible for the debts and obligations of Hypernetics and the Triodetic Group of Companies. If the ongoing business of Hypernetics and the Triodetic Group of Companies is not sufficient to generate funds to service the debts and obligations assumed, the Company may cease to carry on business. Reliance Key Personnel/Employees. The Company’s success is largely dependent upon the performance of key employees and the Company’s ability to hire and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. The Company will face competition for qualified personnel from numerous industry sources and there can be no assurance that it will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The loss of service of any key personnel could have a materially adverse effect on its operations or financial condition. Management. The Company’s success is largely dependent on the performance of its management. The loss of services of any of these persons could have a materially adverse effect on its business and prospects. There is no assurance that the Company can maintain the services of its directors, officers or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Business Integration. Three distinct businesses are being integrated into the Company as a result of the completion of the Amalgamation. The Company has limited experience in managing business integration. There can be no assurance that such integration will occur seamlessly and additional costs, for professional services and otherwise, may need to be incurred on a going forward basis as a result of such business combination. A failure to successfully integrate the three business divisions could lead to inefficiencies in the Company’s ongoing business and may eventually lead to a loss of business. Competition and Market Factors The Company’s legacy Plaintree product is an optical wireless communication system that faces strong competition from other optical wireless companies and more traditional radio frequency wireless competitors. An innovative development by any of the Company’s competitors that provides equivalent or higher speeds of communication at lower prices or a severe downturn in the communications market could have a detrimental effect on the Company’s sales of these products. The Triodetic division has a number of competitors around the world for its construction business. In the event that one of these competitors located in an area of the world with low labour and environmental costs becomes aggressive in worldwide marketing and pricing, this could have a detrimental effect on the sales of this division. Additionally, a large portion of Triodetic’s sales are currently mining and commercial construction. Continued declines in these markets will detrimentally affect sales. The Hypernetics division has less competition for its products in the aviation market. However, its sales closely mirror the ups and downs of this market and the continuing struggles the commercial carriers are suffering may have a detrimental effect on this division's sales. Liability The Triodetic division is a design authority for its buildings and structures. The failure or other complication of one of these products could result in a legal action that could have a detrimental effect on the Company. The Hypernetics division may occasionally be a design authority for its avionics products which may be used on commercial aircraft. The failure or other complication of one of these products, whether or not Hypernetics is the design authority, could result in a legal action that could have a detrimental effect on the Company. 5 