Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors may affect our actual operating and financial results and could cause results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the following information. We may be more sensitive to revenue fluctuations than other companies, which could result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. A substantial majority of our operating expenses, such as personnel and related costs and occupancy costs, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, we may not be able to quickly reduce costs in response to any decrease in revenue. This factor could cause our quarterly results to be lower than expectations of securities analysts and stockholders, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Payments on accounts receivable may be slower than expected, or amounts due on receivables or notes may not be fully collectible. Professional services firms often experience higher average accounts receivable days outstanding compared to many other industries, which may be magnified if the general economy worsens. If our collections become slower, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. We monitor the aging of receivables regularly and make assessments of the ability of customers to pay amounts due. We provide for potential bad debts each month and recognize additional reserves against bad debts as we deem it appropriate. Notwithstanding these measures, our customers may face unexpected circumstances that adversely impact their ability to pay their trade receivables or note obligations to us and we may face unexpected losses as a result. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of whom may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, such as our business unit presidents. In the course of business operations, employees may resign and seek employment elsewhere. Certain principal employees, however, are bound in writing to non-compete agreements barring competitive employment, client solicitation, and solicitation of employees for a period of between two and ten years following his or her resignation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of our key personnel. If we cannot retain the services of key personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we generally have employment agreements and non-competition agreements with key personnel, courts are at times reluctant to enforce such non-competition agreements. In addition, many of our executive officers and other key personnel are either participants in our stock option plan or holders of a significant amount of our common stock. We believe that these interests provide additional incentives for these key employees to remain with us. In order to support our growth, we intend to continue to effectively recruit, hire, train and retain additional qualified management personnel. Our inability to attract and retain necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and conflict of interest rules may limit our ability to provide services to clients of the attest firms with which we have contractual relationships and the ability of such attest firms to provide attestation services to our clients. Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and state accountancy laws and regulations preclude CBIZ from rendering audit and attest services (other than internal audit services). As such, CBIZ and its subsidiaries maintain joint-referral relationships and ASAs with independent licensed CPA firms under which audit and attest services may be provided to CBIZ’s clients by such CPA firms (the “CPA firms”). The CPA firms are owned by licensed CPAs, a vast majority of whom are employed by CBIZ subsidiaries. Under these ASAs, CBIZ provides a range of services to the CPA firms, including: administrative functions such as office management, bookkeeping, and accounting; preparing marketing and promotion materials; providing office space, computer equipment, and systems support; and leasing administrative and professional staff. Services are performed in exchange for a fee. Fees earned by CBIZ under the ASAs are recorded as revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In the event that accounts receivable and unbilled work in process become uncollectible by the CPA firms, the service fee due to CBIZ is typically reduced on a proportional basis. With respect to CPA firm clients that are required to file audited financial statements with the SEC, the SEC staff views CBIZ and the CPA firms with which we have contractual relationships as a single entity in applying independence rules established by the accountancy regulators and the SEC. Accordingly, we do not hold any financial interest in, nor do we enter into any business relationship with, an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain; further, we do not sell any non-audit services to an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not sell under the auditor independence limitations set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other professional accountancy independence standards. SEC staff recently informed us that independence rules that apply to clients that receive attest services under SEC and PCAOB standards from such CPA firms would prohibit such clients from holding any stock of CBIZ, Inc. However, applicable professional standards generally permit CBIZ to provide additional services to privately-held companies, in addition to those services which may be provided to SEC-reporting attest clients of a CPA firm. CBIZ and the CPA firms have implemented policies and procedures designed to enable us to maintain independence and freedom from conflicts of interest in accordance with applicable standards. Given the pre-existing limits set by CBIZ on its relationships with SEC-reporting attest clients of associated CPA firms, and the limited number and size of such clients, the imposition of independence limitations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, SEC rule or interpretation, or PCAOB standards do not and are not expected to materially affect CBIZ revenues. There can be no assurance that following the policies and procedures implemented by us and the CPA firms will enable us and the CPA firms to avoid circumstances that would cause us and them to lack independence from an SEC-reporting attest client; nor can there be any assurance that state, U.S. Government Accountability Office or U.S. Department Of Labor accountancy authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the profession. To the extent that the CPA firms for whom we provide administrative and other services are affected, we may experience a decline in fee revenue from these businesses as well as expenses related to addressing independence concerns. To date, revenues derived from providing services in connection with attestation engagements of the attest firms performed for SEC-reporting clients have not been material. Our goodwill and intangible assets could become impaired, which could lead to material non-cash charges against earnings. We assess potential impairment on our goodwill and intangible asset balances, including client lists, on an annual basis, or more frequently if there is any indication that the asset may be impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets resulting from this periodic assessment would result in a non-cash charge against current earnings, which could lead to a material impact on our results of operations, statements of financial position, and earnings per share. Any decline in future revenues, cash flows or growth rates as a result of further adverse 12 Table of Contents changes in the economic environment or an adverse change resulting from new governmental regulations could lead to an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. Certain liabilities resulting from acquisitions are estimated and could lead to a material non-cash impact on earnings. Through its acquisition activities, CBIZ records liabilities for estimated future contingent earnout payments. These liabilities are reviewed quarterly and changes in assumptions used to determine the amount of the liability could lead to a non-cash adjustment that may have a material impact, favorable or unfavorable, on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Governmental regulations and interpretations are subject to changes, which could have a material adverse effect on revenue. Laws and regulations could result in changes in the amount or the type of business services required by businesses and individuals. We cannot be sure that future laws and regulations will provide the same or similar opportunities for us to provide business consulting and management services to businesses and individuals. State insurance regulators have conducted inquiries to clarify the nature of compensation arrangements within the insurance brokerage industry. Future regulatory actions or laws, including the Affordable Care Act of 2010, may limit or eliminate our ability to enhance revenue through all current compensation arrangements and may result in a diminution of future insurance brokerage revenue from these sources. Accordingly, CBIZ’s ability to continue to operate in some states may depend on our flexibility to modify our operational structure in response to these changes in regulations. Changes in the United States healthcare environment, including new health care legislation, may adversely affect the revenue and margins in our healthcare benefit businesses. Our employee benefits business, specifically our group health consulting and brokerage businesses, receives commissions for brokering employer-sponsored healthcare policies with insurance carriers on behalf of the client. In many cases, these commissions consist of a ratable portion of the insurance premiums on those policies, based upon a sliding scale pertaining to the dollar volume of premiums and/or the number of participants in the plan. Changes in the healthcare environment, including, but not limited to, any legislated changes in the U.S. national health care system, that affect the methods by which insurance carriers remunerate brokers, could adversely impact our revenues and margins in this business. Specifically, legislation or other changes could afford our clients and their employees the ability to seek insurance coverage through other means, including, but not limited to, direct access with insurance carriers or other similar avenues, which could eliminate or adversely alter the remuneration brokers receive from insurance carriers for their services. Higher rates of unemployment in the U.S. could result in a general reduction in the number of individuals with employer-sponsored health care coverage. This decline in employee participation in healthcare insurance plans at our clients could result in a reduction in the commissions we receive from insurance carriers for our brokerage services, which could have an adverse impact on revenues and margins in this business. We are subject to risks relating to processing customer transactions for our payroll and other transaction processing businesses. The high volume of client funds and data processed by us, or by our out-sourced resources abroad, in our transaction related businesses entails risks for which we may be held liable if the accuracy or timeliness of the transactions processed is not correct. In addition, related to our payroll and employee benefits businesses, we store personal information about some of our clients and their employees for which we may be liable under the 13 Table of Contents Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or other governmental regulations if the security of this information is breached. We could incur significant legal expense to defend any claims against us, even those claims without merit. While we carry insurance against these potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that circumstances surrounding such an error or breach of security would be entirely reimbursed through insurance coverage. We believe we have controls and procedures in place to address our fiduciary responsibility and mitigate these risks. However, if we are not successful in managing these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Cyber attacks or other security breaches involving our computer systems or the systems of one or more of our vendors could materially and adversely affect our business. Our systems, like others in the payroll, retirement and financial services industries, are vulnerable to cyber security risks, and we are subject to potential disruption caused by such activities. Corporations such as ours are subject to frequent attacks on their systems. Such attacks may have various goals, from seeking confidential information to causing operational disruption. Although to date such activities have not resulted in material disruptions to our operations or, to our knowledge, breach of any security or confidential information, no assurance can be provided that such disruptions or breach will not occur in the future. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation, regulatory investigations, and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely affect the growth of our business. We are subject to risk as it relates to software that we license from third parties. We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are terminable if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. If any of these relationships were terminated or if any of these parties were to cease doing business or cease to support the applications we currently utilize, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. However, we cannot assure you that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We could be held liable for errors and omissions. All of our business services entail an inherent risk of malpractice and other similar claims resulting from errors and omissions. Therefore, we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot be certain that actual future claims or related legal expenses would not exceed the coverage amounts. In addition, we cannot be certain that the different insurance carriers which provide errors and omissions coverage for different lines of our business will not dispute their obligation to cover a particular claim. If we have a large claim, or a large number of claims, on our insurance, the rates for such insurance may increase, and amounts expended in defense or settlement of these claims prior to exhaustion of deductible or self-retention levels may become significant, but contractual arrangements with clients may constrain our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees. Insurance rate increases, disputes by carriers over coverage questions, payments by us within deductible or self-retention limits, as well as any underlying claims or settlement of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The future issuance of additional shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Future sales or issuances of common stock, including those related to the uses described below, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. We have authorized 250 million shares, and have approximately 49.8 million shares outstanding at February 28, 2014. A substantial number of these shares have been issued in connection with acquisitions. As part of many acquisition transactions, shares are contractually restricted from sale for a one-year period, and as of February 28, 2014, approximately 0.4 million shares of common stock were under lock-up contractual restrictions that expire by December 31, 2014. We cannot be sure when sales by 14 Table of Contents holders of our stock will occur, how many shares will be sold or the effect that sales may have on the market price of our common stock. In 2006, the Company issued $100.0 million of 3.125% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026 (the “2006 Notes”). During 2010 and 2011, $99.3 million of the 2006 Notes were retired by CBIZ, leaving $750,000 outstanding as of December 31, 2013. Although the Company cannot at this time determine the number of shares of common stock it will issue upon conversion of the 2006 Notes, if any, the number of shares of common stock will be calculated as defined in the indenture agreements with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee. In addition, in September 2010, CBIZ issued $130.0 million of 4.875% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 (the “2010 Notes”) pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company cannot at this time determine the number of shares of common stock it will issue upon conversion of these notes, although the number of shares of common stock it will issue, if any, will be calculated as defined in the indenture agreements with U.S. Bank National Association as trustee. Our principal stockholders may have substantial control over our operations. At December 31, 2013, the stockholders identified below beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) the following aggregate amounts and percentages of our common stock: Numberof Shares(in millions) % of CBIZ’sOutstandingCommonStock Burgundy Asset Management Ltd 4.9 10.0 % FMR LLC 4.3 8.8 % Lombardia Capital Partners LLC 3.9 8.1 % Westbury (Bermuda) Ltd 3.9 7.9 % Cardinal Capital Management LLC 3.2 6.5 % First Manhattan Company 3.0 6.1 % Dimensional Fund Advisors, Inc 2.6 5.3 % Silvercrest Asset Management Group LLC 2.4 5.0 % BlackRock Fund Advisors 2.4 4.8 % Skyline Asset Management LP 2.3 4.7 % P2 Capital Partners LLC 2.3 4.6 % Investment Counselors of Maryland LLC 2.2 4.4 % CBIZ Executive Officers and Directors 2.6 5.3 % The foregoing as a group 40.0 81.5 % Because of their stock ownership, these stockholders may exert substantial influence or actions that require the consent of a majority of our outstanding shares, including the election of directors. CBIZ’s share repurchase activities may result in increased ownership percentages of these individuals and therefore increase the influence they may exert, if they do not participate in these share repurchase transactions or otherwise dispose of their common stock. We require a significant amount of cash for interest payments on our debt and to expand our business as planned. At December 31, 2013, our debt consisted of $48.5 million in principal amount outstanding under our credit facility and $130.8 million principal amount outstanding under our convertible notes. Our debt requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to use for acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Our ability to make interest payments on our debt, and to fund acquisitions, will depend upon our ability to generate 15 Table of Contents cash in the future. Insufficient cash flow could place us at risk of default under our debt agreements or could prevent us from expanding our business as planned. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our other liquidity needs. Terms of our credit facility may adversely affect our ability to run our business and/or reduce stockholder returns. The terms of our credit facility, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our credit facility may: • restrict our ability to repurchase or redeem our capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to dispose of our assets, create liens on our assets, to extend credit or to issue dividends to our stockholders; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments will cause a default under those instruments. Our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders and other debt holders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our debt. We are reliant on information processing systems and any failure of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide business services depends on our capacity to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and expand and upgrade periodically our information processing capabilities. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment and software systems, telecommunications failure, or damage caused by fire, tornadoes, lightning, electrical power outage, or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, we cannot be sure that insurance or these services will continue to be available, cover all our losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide business services. We may not be able to acquire and finance additional businesses which may limit our ability to pursue our business strategy. CBIZ acquired two businesses and three client lists during 2013, and maintains a healthy pipeline of potential businesses for acquisition. Targeted acquisitions are part of our growth strategy, and it is our intention to selectively acquire businesses or client lists that are complementary to existing service offerings in our target markets. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue identifying appropriate acquisition candidates and acquire them on satisfactory terms, and we cannot be assured that such acquisitions, even if 16 Table of Contents completed, will perform as expected or will contribute significant synergies, revenues or profits. In addition, we may also face increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete transactions on terms that are favorable to us. As discussed above, there are certain provisions under our credit facility that may limit our ability to acquire additional businesses. In the event that we are not in compliance with certain covenants as specified in our credit facility, we could be restricted from making acquisitions, restricted from borrowing funds from our credit facility for other uses, or required to pay down the outstanding balance on the line of credit. However, management believes that funds available under the credit facility, along with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including planned acquisition activity in the foreseeable future. To the extent we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized. The business services industry is competitive and fragmented. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. We face competition from a number of sources in both the business services industry and from specialty insurance agencies. Competition in both industries has led to consolidation. Many of our competitors are large companies that may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. In addition to these large companies and specialty insurance agencies, we face competition in the business services industry from in-house employee services departments, local business services companies and independent consultants, as well as from new entrants into our markets. We cannot assure you that, as our industry continues to evolve, additional competitors will not enter the industry or that our clients will not choose to conduct more of their business services internally or through alternative business services providers. Although we intend to monitor industry trends and respond accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to such trends in a timely manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 