Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors may affect our actual operating and financial results and could cause results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. There may be other factors, and new risk factors may emerge in the future. You should carefully consider the following information. A reversal of or decline in the current trend of businesses utilizing third-party service providers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and growth depend in part on the trend toward businesses utilizing third-party service providers. We can give you no assurance that this trend will continue. Current and potential customers may elect to perform such services with their own employees. A significant reversal of, or a decline in, this trend would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be more sensitive to revenue fluctuations than other companies, which could result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. A substantial majority of our operating expenses such as personnel and related costs and occupancy costs, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, we may not be able to quickly reduce costs in response to any decrease in revenue. For example, any decision by a significant client to delay or cancel our services may cause significant variations in operating results and could result in losses for the applicable quarters. Additionally, the general condition of the United States economy has and will continue to affect our business. Potential new clients may defer from switching service providers when they believe economic conditions are unfavorable. Any of these factors could cause our quarterly results to be lower than expectations of securities analysts and shareholders, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. 10 Payments on accounts receivable or notes receivable may be slower than expected, or amounts due on receivables or notes may not be fully collectible. Professional services firms often experience higher average accounts receivable days outstanding compared to many other industries. If collections become slower, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. We monitor the aging of receivables regularly and make assessments of the ability of customers to pay amounts due. We provide for potential bad debts each month and recognize additional reserves against bad debts as we deem it appropriate. Notwithstanding these measures, our customers may face unexpected circumstances that adversely impact their ability to pay their trade receivables or note obligations to us and we may face unexpected losses as a result. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of whom may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, such as our business unit presidents. In the course of business operations, employees may resign and seek employment elsewhere. Certain principal employees, however, are bound in writing to non-compete agreements barring competitive employment, client solicitation, and solicitation of employees for a period of between two and ten years following his or her resignation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of our key personnel. If we cannot retain the services of key personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we generally have employment agreements and non-competition agreements with key personnel, courts are at times reluctant to enforce such non-competition agreements. In addition, many of our executive officers and other key personnel are either participants in our stock option plan or holders of a significant amount of our common stock. We believe that these interests provide additional incentives for these key employees to remain with us. In order to support our growth, we intend to continue to effectively recruit, hire, train and retain additional qualified management personnel. Our inability to attract and retain necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and conflict of interest rules may limit our ability to provide services to clients of the attest firms with which we have contractual relationships and the ability of such attest firms to provide attestation services to clients of ours. Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and state accountancy laws and regulations preclude CBIZ from rendering audit and attest services (other than internal audit services). As such, CBIZ and its subsidiaries maintain joint-referral relationships and administrative service agreements (ASAs) with independent licensed Certified Public Accounting (CPA) firms under which audit and attest services may be provided to CBIZ’s clients by such CPA firms. These firms are owned by licensed CPAs, a vast majority of whom are employed by CBIZ subsidiaries. Under these ASAs, CBIZ provides a range of services to the CPA firms, including (but not limited to): administrative functions such as office management, bookkeeping, and accounting; preparing marketing and promotion materials; providing office space, computer equipment, and systems support; and leasing administrative and professional staff. Services are performed in exchange for a fee. Fees earned by CBIZ under the ASAs are recorded as revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In the event that accounts receivable and unbilled work in process become uncollectible by the CPA firms, the service fee due to CBIZ is reduced on a pro-rata basis. With respect to CPA firm clients that are required to file audited financial statements with the SEC, the SEC staff views CBIZ and the CPA firms with which we have contractual relationships as a single entity in applying independence rules established by the accountancy regulators and the SEC. Accordingly, we do not hold any financial interest in, nor do we enter into any business relationship with, an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain; further, we do not sell any non-audit services to an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain, under the auditor independence limitations set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other professional accountancy independence standards. Applicable professional standards generally permit the Financial Services practice group to provide additional services to 11 privately-held companies, in addition to those services which may be provided to SEC-reporting attest clients of an associated CPA firm. CBIZ and the CPA firms with which we are associated have implemented policies and procedures designed to enable us to maintain independence and freedom from conflicts of interest in accordance with applicable standards. Given the pre-existing limits set by CBIZ on its relationships with SEC-reporting attest clients of associated CPA firms, and the limited number and size of such clients, the imposition of Sarbanes-Oxley Act independence limitations did not and is not expected to materially affect CBIZ revenues. There can be no assurance that following the policies and procedures implemented by us and the attest firms will enable us and the attest firms to avoid circumstances that would cause us and them to lack independence from an SEC-reporting attest client; nor can there be any assurance that state accountancy authorities will not extend current restrictions on the profession to include private companies. To the extent that licensed CPA firms for whom we provide administrative and other services are affected, we may experience a decline in fee revenue from these businesses as well. To date, revenues derived from providing services in connection with attestation engagements of the attest firms performed for SEC-reporting clients have not been material. Governmental regulations and interpretations are subject to changes. Laws and regulations often result in changes in the amount or the type of business services required by businesses and individuals. We cannot be sure that future laws and regulations will provide the same or similar opportunities for us to provide business consulting and management services to businesses and individuals. State insurance regulators have conducted inquiries to clarify the nature of compensation arrangements within the insurance brokerage industry. Future regulatory action may limit or eliminate our ability to enhance revenue through all current compensation arrangements, and may result in a diminution of future insurance brokerage revenue from these sources. Accordingly, CBIZ’s ability to continue to operate in some states may depend on our flexibility to modify our operational structure in response to these changes in regulations. Changes in government and managed care reimbursement rules and rates, as well as other practices, may adversely affect the revenue of our current medical management business. Changes in some managed care plans and federal Medicare and Medicaid physician and practice expense reimbursement rules and rates have and may continue to adversely affect revenue in our existing physician and medical billing and collections business. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 also provides for a reduction and cap that began in 2007 of reimbursement for certain fees and charges related to imaging services and facilities of offices, imaging centers and independent diagnostic testing facilities. In addition, certain managed care payors may impose precertification and other management programs which could limit or control the use of, and reimbursement for, imaging and diagnostic services. Certain managed care payors may institute “pay for performance” and “quality initiative” programs that could limit or control physician, office and facility, and practice services and procedures, as well as reimbursement costs, and replace volume-based payment methods. Since our physician and medical billing and collections business is typically paid a portion of the revenue collected on behalf of our clients, any reduction in the volume of services or reimbursement rates for such services or expenses for which our clients are eligible to be paid may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and maintain margins. We are subject to risks relating to processing customer transactions for our payroll, medical practice management, and other transaction processing businesses. The high volume of client funds and data processed by us, or by our out-sourced resources abroad, in our transaction related businesses entails risks for which we may be held liable if the accuracy or timeliness of the transactions processed is not correct. We could incur significant legal expense to defend any claims against us, even those claims without merit. While we carry insurance against these potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that circumstances surrounding such an error would be entirely reimbursed through insurance coverage. We believe we have controls and procedures in place to address our fiduciary responsibility and mitigate these risks. However, if we are not successful in managing these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. 12 We are subject to risk as it relates to software that we license from third parties. We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are terminable if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. If any of these relationships were terminated or if any of these parties were to cease doing business or cease to support the applications we currently utilize, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. However, we cannot assure you that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We could be held liable for errors and omissions. All of our business services entail an inherent risk of malpractice and other similar claims. Therefore, we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot be certain that actual future claims or related legal expenses would not exceed the coverage amounts. In addition, we cannot be certain that the different insurance carriers which provide errors and omissions coverage for different lines of our business will not dispute their obligation to cover a particular claim. If we have a large claim, or a large number of claims, on our insurance, the rates for such insurance may increase, and amounts expended in defense or settlement of these claims prior to exhaustion of deductible or self-retention levels may become significant, but contractual arrangements with clients may constrain our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees. Insurance rate increases, disputes by carriers over coverage questions, payments by us within deductible or self-retention limits, as well as any underlying claims or settlement of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We invest in auction rate securities which are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect our liquidity. We invest a portion of our funds held for clients in auction rate securities (ARS). ARS are variable-rate debt instruments with longer stated maturities whose interest rates are reset at predetermined short-term intervals through a Dutch auction system. Historically, investments in ARS have been highly liquid, however, if an auction for the securities we own fails, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these investments is successful. CBIZ believes that if such an event occurred, it has adequate liquidity to operate and settle client fund obligations. We invest only in those securities which carry investment grade ratings at the time of our investment, but if the credit rating of either the security issuer or the third-party insurer underlying the investment deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. Our principal stockholders may have substantial control over our operations. As of December 31, 2007, the stockholders identified below owned the following aggregate amounts and percentages of our common stock, including shares that may be acquired by exercising options: Number of % of CBIZ’s Shares Outstanding (in millions) Common Stock Michael G. DeGroote 15.3 23.7 % Cardinal Capital Management LLC 3.0 4.6 % Skyline Asset Management L.P 2.5 3.9 % Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 2.2 3.4 % Barclays Global Investors, NA & Barclays Global Fund Advisors 2.2 3.4 % CBIZ Executive Officers and Directors 3.2 5.0 % The foregoing as a group 28.4 44.0 % Because of their stock ownership, these stockholders may exert substantial influence or actions that require the consent of a majority of our outstanding shares, including the election of directors. CBIZ’s share repurchase activities may serve to increase the ownership percentage of these individuals and therefore increase the influence they may exert, if they do not participate in these share repurchase transactions. 13 We have shares eligible for future sale that could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Future sales or issuances of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. We have authorized 250 million shares, and have issued and outstanding approximately 63 million shares at February 29, 2008. A substantial number of these shares have been issued in connection with acquisitions. As part of many acquisition transactions, shares are contractually restricted from sale for periods up to two years, and as of February 29, 2008, approximately 320,000 shares of common stock were under lock-up contractual restrictions. We cannot be sure when sales by holders of our stock will occur, how many shares will be sold or the effect that sales may have on the market price of our common stock. In 2006, CBIZ filed a registration statement with the SEC to register an undeterminable number of shares of Common Stock issuable by the Company upon conversion (the “Conversion Shares”) of the Company’s issued and outstanding 3.125% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026 (the “Notes”). The registration statement has been declared effective. Although the Company cannot at this time determine the number of Conversion Shares it will issue upon conversion of the Notes, if any, the number of Conversion Shares will be calculated as set out in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed by the Company with the SEC on July 21, 2006. We are reliant on information processing systems. Our ability to provide business services depends on our capacity to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and expand and upgrade periodically our information processing capabilities. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment and software systems, telecommunications failure, or damage caused by fire, tornadoes, lightning, electrical power outage, or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, we cannot be sure that insurance or these services will continue to be available at reasonable prices, cover all our losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide business services. We may not be able to acquire and finance additional businesses which may limit our ability to pursue our business strategy. CBIZ acquired three businesses and five client lists during 2007. It is our intention to selectively acquire businesses or client lists that are complementary in building out our service offerings in our target markets. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue identifying appropriate acquisition candidates and acquire them on satisfactory terms. We cannot assure you that such acquisitions, even if completed, will perform as expected or will contribute significant synergies, revenues or profits. In addition, we may also face increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete transactions on terms that are favorable to us. There are certain provisions under our credit facility that may limit our ability to acquire additional businesses. In the event that we are not in compliance with certain covenants as specified in our credit facility, we could be restricted from making acquisitions, restricted from borrowing funds from our credit facility for other uses, or required to pay down the outstanding balance on the line of credit. However, management believes that funds available under the credit facility, along with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including planned acquisition activity in the foreseeable future. To the extent we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized. The business services industry is competitive and fragmented. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We face competition from a number of sources in both the business services industry and from specialty insurance agencies. Competition in both industries has led to consolidation. Many of our competitors are large companies that may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. In addition to these large companies and specialty insurance agencies, we face competition in the business services industry from in-house employee services departments, local business services companies and independent consultants, as well as from new entrants 14 into our markets. We cannot assure you that, as our industry continues to evolve, additional competitors will not enter the industry or that our clients will not choose to conduct more of their business services internally or through alternative business services providers. Although we intend to monitor industry trends and respond accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to such trends in a timely manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 