Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in or incorporated by reference into our Form 10-K, as part of your evaluation of the Company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our Acquisitions May Not Perform as Anticipated We have completed many acquisitions of self-storage facilities since our initial public offering of common stock in June 1995. Our strategy is to continue to grow by acquiring additional self-storage facilities. Acquisitions entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with our expectations and that our judgments with respect to the prices paid for acquired properties and the costs of any improvements required to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property will prove inaccurate. Acquisitions also involve general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. We May Incur Problems With Our Real Estate Financing Unsecured Credit Facility. We have a line of credit with a syndicate of financial institutions, which are our "lenders." This unsecured credit facility is recourse to us and the required payments are not reduced if the economic performance of any of the properties declines. The unsecured credit facility limits our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, except for distributions required by the real estate investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which we refer to as the "Code" and in other limited circumstances. If there is an event of default, our lenders may seek to exercise their rights under the unsecured credit facility, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make expected distributions to shareholders. Rising Interest Rates. Indebtedness that we incur under the unsecured credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense, which would reduce our cash available for distribution and our ability to pay expected distributions to our shareholders. We manage our exposure to rising interest rates using interest rate swaps and other available mechanisms. If the amount of our indebtedness bearing interest at a variable rate increases, our unsecured credit facility may require us to use those arrangements. Refinancing May Not Be Available. It may be necessary for us to refinance our unsecured credit facility through additional debt financing or equity offerings. If we were unable to refinance this indebtedness on acceptable terms, we might be forced to dispose of some of our properties upon disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us and might adversely affect the cash available for distribution. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancings, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our cash available for distribution and our ability to pay expected distributions to shareholders. Our Debt Levels May Increase Our Board of Directors currently has a policy of limiting the amount of our debt at the time of incurrence to less than 50% of the sum of the market value of our issued and outstanding common stock and preferred stock plus the amount of our debt including the debt proposed to be incurred. However, our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we might incur. Accordingly, our Board of Directors could alter or eliminate the current policy limitation on borrowing without a vote of our shareholders. We could become highly leveraged if this policy were changed. However, our ability to incur debt is limited by covenants in our bank credit arrangements and in our securities purchase agreement with holders of our Series C preferred stock. We are Subject to The Risks Posed by Fluctuating Demand and Significant Competition in the Self-Storage Industry Our properties are subject to all operating risks common to the self-storage industry. These risks include but are not limited to the following: - 7 - <page> - Decreases in demand for rental spaces in a particular locale; - - Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; - - Changes in market rental rates; and - - Inability to collect rents from customers. Our current strategy is to acquire interests only in self-storage facilities. Consequently, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. Our Properties compete with other self-storage facilities in their geographic markets. As a result of competition, the Properties could experience a decrease in occupancy levels and rental rates, which would decrease our cash available for distribution. We compete in operations and for acquisition opportunities with companies that have substantial financial resources. Competition may reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities offered to us and increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. The self-storage industry has at times experienced overbuilding in response to perceived increases in demand. A recurrence of overbuilding might cause us to experience a decrease in occupancy levels, limit our ability to increase rents and compel u s to offer discounted rents. Our Real Estate Investments are Illiquid and are Subject to Uninsurable Risks and Government Regulations General Risks. Our investments are subject to varying degrees of risk generally related to the ownership of real property. The underlying value of our real estate investments and our income and ability to make distributions to our shareholders are dependent upon our ability to operate the properties in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase cash available for distribution. Income from our properties may be adversely affected by the following factors: - - Changes in national economic conditions; - - Changes in general or local economic conditions and neighborhood characteristics; - - Competition from other self-storage facilities; - - Changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds; - - The impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; - - The ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older facilities; - - Changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; - - Adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; - - Uninsured losses resulting from casualties associated with severe weather conditions, civil unrest, acts of God, including natural disasters, and acts of war; - - Adverse changes in zoning laws; and - - Other factors that are beyond our control. Illiquidity of Real Estate May Limit its Value. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions is limited. In addition, provisions of the Code may limit our ability to profit on the sale of properties held for fewer than four years. We may be unable to dispose of a property when we find disposition advantageous or necessary and the sale price of any disposition may not equal or exceed the amount of our investment. - 8 - <page> Uninsured and Underinsured Losses Could Reduce the Value of our Properties. Some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, that we potentially face with respect to our properties may be uninsurable or not insurable at an acceptable cost. For example, in 2005 and 2004, our income was adversely affected by uninsured losses resulting from hurricanes that hit the United States. Our management uses its discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to acquiring appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. These decisions may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other f actors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds received by us might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to a particular property. Possible Liability Relating to Environmental Matters. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in that property. Those laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not cause or know of the presence of hazardous or toxic substances and even if the storage of those substances was in violation of a tenant's lease. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of the owner to address their presence on the property, may adversely affect the owner's ability to borrow using that real property as collateral. In connection with the ownership of the properties, we may be potentially liable for any of those costs. Americans with Disabilities Act. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. If we were required to make modifications to comply with the ADA, our results of operations and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. There are Limitations on the Ability to Change Control of Sovran Limitation on Ownership and Transfer of Shares. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code. To limit the possibility that we will fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation include ownership limits and transfer restrictions on shares of our capital stock. Our Articles of Incorporation limit ownership of our issued and outstanding capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock, except that the ownership by some of our shareholders is limited to 15%. These ownership limits may: - Have the effect of precluding an acquisition of control of Sovran by a third party without consent of our Board of Directors even if the change in control would be in the interest of shareholders, and - - Limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for shares of our common stock they hold that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a block of common stock in excess of 9.8% or 15%, as the case may be, of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or to otherwise effect a change in control of Sovran. Our Board of Directors may waive the ownership limits if it is satisfied that ownership by those shareholders in excess of those limits will not jeopardize our status as a REIT under the Code or in the event it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to be a REIT. Waivers have been granted to the holders of our Series C preferred stock. A transfer of our common stock and/or preferred stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limits may not be effective under some circumstances. - 9 - <page> Shareholder Rights Plan. We have a shareholder rights plan that grants the holders of our common stock rights that generally become exercisable if a person: - Becomes an "acquiring person" by acquiring 10% or more of our outstanding common stock, or - - Commences a tender offer that would result in that person owning 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. The shareholder rights plan generally provides that the initial holders of our Series C preferred stock are not considered acquiring persons by reason of their purchase from us of the Series C preferred stock or other related acquisitions, if those acquisitions are not made with the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of Sovran. In the event a person becomes an acquiring person, each holder of a right (other than the acquiring person) would be entitled to acquire a number of shares of our Series A junior preferred stock that are equivalent to the shares of our common stock having a value of twice the then-current exercise price of the right. If we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after that event, each holder of a right would then be entitled to purchase, at the then-current exercise price, shares of the acquiring company's common stock having a value of twice the exer cise price of the right. Our shareholder rights plan may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Sovran. Other Limitations. Other limitations could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some, or a majority, of our outstanding common stock might receive a premium for their shares of our common stock that exceeds the then prevailing market price or that those holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Sovran even if a change in control were in the shareholders' interest. In addition, the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, imposes restrictions and requires that specified procedures be followed with respect to the acquisition of stated levels of share ownership and business combinations, including combinations with interested shareholders. These provisions of the MGCL could have the effect of delaying or pr eventing a change in control of Sovran even if a change in control were in the shareholders' interest. Waivers and exemptions have been granted to the initial purchasers of our Series C preferred stock in connection with these provisions of the MGCL. In addition, under the Operating Partnership's agreement of limited partnership, in general, we may not merge, consolidate or engage in any combination with another person or sell all or substantially all of our assets unless that transaction includes the merger or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Partnership, which requires the approval of the holders of 75% of the limited partnership interests thereof. If we were to own less than 75% of the limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, this provision of the limited partnership agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing us from engaging in some change of control transactions. Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Adverse Consequences We intend to operate in a manner that will permit us to qualify as a REIT under the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Continued qualification as a REIT depends upon our continuing ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be ineligible for qualification as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which our qualification was lost. As a result, distributions to the shareholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election. - 10 - <page> Market Interests Rates May Influence the Price of our Common Stock One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock is the annual yields on our common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates will result in higher yields on other financial instruments, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Regional Concentration of our Business May Subject us to Economic Downturns in the States of Texas and Florida. At December 31, 2005, 112 of our 285 self-storage facilities are located in the States of Texas and Florida. For the year ended December 31, 2005, these facilities accounted for approximately 42.5% of our total revenues. This concentration of business in Texas and Florida exposes us to potential losses resulting from a downturn in the economies of those states. If economic conditions in those states deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Implementation of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Common Stock On May 28, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief and Reconciliation Act of 2003, which provides favorable income tax rates for certain corporate dividends received by individuals through December 31, 2008. Under this new law, REIT dividends are not eligible for the preferential capital gain rates applicable to dividends unless the dividends are attributable to income that has been subject to corporate-level tax. As a result, substantially all of the distributions paid on shares of our stock are not expected to qualify for those lower rates. This new law could cause stock in non-REIT corporations to be more attractive to investors relative to stock in REITs, which may negatively affect the value of, and the market for, our common stock. Terrorist Attacks and the Possibility of Armed Conflict May Have an Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition and Operating Results and Could Decrease the Value of Our Assets Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, or the recent war with Iraq, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. There may be further terrorist attacks against the United States. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and, as a result, impair our ability to achieve our expected results. Furthermore, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. That insurance may not be available or, if it is available and we decide, or are required by our lenders, to obtain terrorism coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk covered. In addition, the adverse effects terrorist acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a ma terial adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into armed conflict, which could further impact our business, financial and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 