ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are some of the factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements made by us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. Most of these risks are generally beyond our control. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below, or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 -Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes under Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our business is largely dependent on sales to the nuclear power industry. Any disruption in this industry would have a material adverse effect upon our revenue. In 2012, 59% of GSE’s revenue was from customers in the nuclear power industry (67% in 2011 and 72% in 2010). The Company expects to derive a significant portion of its revenue from customers in the nuclear power industry for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to supply nuclear power plant simulators and related products and services is dependent on the continued operation of nuclear power plants and, to a lesser extent, on the construction of new nuclear power plants. A wide range of factors affect the continued operation and construction of nuclear power plants, including the political and regulatory environment, the availability and cost of alternative means of power generation, the occurrence of future nuclear incidents, such as the one which occurred at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant in 2011, and general economic conditions. 24 Our sales to foreign customers expose us to risks associated with operating internationally. Sales of products and services to end users outside the United States accounted for approximately 70% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2012, 66% of consolidated revenue in 2011, and 71% of consolidated revenue in 2010. Consequently, our businesses are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: ¨ export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; ¨ compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. regulations; ¨ the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations; ¨ contract award and funding delays; ¨ potential restrictions on transfers of funds; ¨ potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection; ¨ currency fluctuations; ¨ import and export duties and value added taxes; ¨ transportation delays and interruptions; ¨ difficulties involving strategic alliances and managing foreign sales agents or representatives; ¨ uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and ¨ potential military conflicts and political risks. While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our foreign business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate. The following countries have provided more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for the indicated period: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 United Kingdom 16% 12% 5% People's Republic of China 11% 5% 4% Japan 9% 13% 9% Federal Republic of Germany 8% 12% 9% Slovak Republic 6% 10% 22% 25 Our expense levels are based upon our expectations as to future revenue, so we may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for a revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall would likely have a disproportionate effect on our operating results. Our revenue was $52.2 million, $51.1 million, and $47.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Our operating income (loss) was $2.0 million, $2.2 million, and $(1.2) million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including purchasing patterns, timing of new products and enhancements by us and our competitors, and fluctuating global economic conditions. Since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenue and includes certain fixed costs, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall and such revenue shortfalls would likely have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operating results. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Our backlog as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $51.9 million and $51.5 million, respectively. Our backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future backlog or sales. Moreover, cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of the services requested in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, future revenues. Our failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog would have an adverse effect on our operating results. We are a party to fixed price contracts and will enter into similar contracts in the future, which could result in reduced profits or losses if we are not able to accurately estimate or control costs. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to contracts entered into on a fixed price basis, which allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. If our initial estimates are incorrect, or if unanticipated circumstances arise, we could experience cost overruns which would result in reduced profits or even result in losses on these contracts. Our financial condition is dependent upon our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings or losses caused by cost overruns could have a negative impact on our financial results. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursable contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Our inability to successfully estimate and manage costs on each of these contract types may materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We are dependent on product innovation and research and development, which costs are incurred prior to revenue for new products and improvements. We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product line, develop new products, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer needs. Our product development activities are aimed at the development and expansion of our library of software modeling tools, the improvement of our display systems and workstation technologies, and the advancement and upgrading of our simulation technology. The life cycles for software modeling tools, graphical user interfaces, and simulation technology are variable and largely determined by competitive pressures. Consequently, we will need to continue to make significant investments in research and development to enhance and expand our capabilities in these areas and to maintain our competitive advantage. 26 We use derivative instruments in the normal course of our business which could result in financial losses that negatively impact our net income. We periodically enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage market risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on foreign-denominated trade receivables. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. We attempt to minimize credit exposure by limiting counterparties to internationally recognized financial institutions. We issue performance bonds and bid bonds in the normal course of our business which could result in financial losses that negatively impact our net income. We are often required to issue performance bonds to our customers as a normal part of our business activities. Our customers may have the ability to draw upon these performance bonds in the event we fail to cure a material breach of the contract within 30 days of receiving notice from the customer regarding the nature of the breach. As of December 31, 2012, we had issued bid and performance bonds on fifteen contracts totaling $6.0 million, of which $1.8 million have been cash collateralized; the largest of these performance bonds was for $2.5 million. Although we expect no material breaches to occur on these contracts, if such a breach were to occur and we failed to cure such breach, we could incur a loss of up to $6.0 million. We rely upon our intellectual property rights for the success of our business; however, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. Although we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are important to establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position, our business depends, in part, on our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology and information. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, and trademark law, contractual arrangements and technical means to protect our intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, joint venture and alliance partners, customers and other third parties that are granted access to our proprietary information, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that we have protected or will be able to protect our proprietary technology and information adequately, that the unauthorized disclosure or use of our proprietary information will be prevented, that others have not or will not develop similar technology or information independently, or, to the extent we own any patents in the future, that others have not or will not be able to design around those future patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which our products are sold do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. This competition may prevent us from raising prices at the same pace at which our costs increase. Our businesses operate in highly competitive environments with both domestic and foreign competitors, many of whom have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. The principal factors affecting competition include price, technological proficiency, ease of system configuration, product reliability, applications expertise, engineering support, local presence and financial stability. We believe competition in the simulation fields may further intensify in the future as a result of advances in technology, consolidations and/or strategic alliances among competitors, increased costs required to develop new technology and the increasing importance of software content in systems and products. As our business has a significant international component, changes in the value of the dollar could adversely affect our ability to compete internationally. 27 We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating acquired businesses. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies with compatible or related products. These and any future acquisitions we make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies, which include, among other things: ¨ potential exposure to unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; ¨ higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; ¨ difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations and personnel of the companies, especially if the acquired operations are geographically distant; ¨ potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management time and attention; ¨ failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; ¨ difficulties in adopting and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; ¨ loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and ¨ possible dilution to our shareholders. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions. We may make a strategic acquisition knowing that the transaction may adversely affect our short-term profitability, perhaps because the acquisition candidate may be experiencing operating losses. We may believe that acquiring such a company outweighs the operating losses the candidate is experiencing and the losses that we expect to experience before being able to make the acquisition candidate profitable. The completion of such an acquisition in the future would negatively affect our profitability and may cause a decline in our stock price. While we believe we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate the risks of such an acquisition, there is no assurance that the transaction will be successful and not have a negative effect on profitability. A failure to attract and retain technical personnel could reduce our revenue and our operational effectiveness. There is a continuing demand for qualified technical personnel. We believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Our design and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel. Although we currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for our technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our contract performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. 28 The nuclear power industry, our largest customer group, is associated with a number of hazards which could create significant liabilities. Our business could expose us to third party claims with respect to product, environmental and other similar liabilities. Although we have sought protection from these potential liabilities through a variety of legal and contractual provisions as well as through liability insurance, the effectiveness of such protections has not been fully tested. Certain of our products and services are used by the nuclear power industry primarily in operator training. Although our contracts for such products and services typically contain provisions designed to protect us from potential liabilities associated with such use, there can be no assurance that we would not be materially adversely affected by claims or actions which may potentially arise. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Third-party claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others may be costly to defend or settle and could damage our business. We cannot be certain that our software and services do not infringe issued patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees concerning their use of our software products and integration technologies and services. Third parties may bring claims of infringement against us. Because our software is integrated with our customers' networks and business processes, as well as other software applications, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us, as well as our customers and other software suppliers, if the cause of the alleged infringement cannot easily be determined. Claims of alleged infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business and may discourage potential customers from doing business with us on acceptable terms, if at all. Defending against claims of infringement may be time-consuming and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including our management's attention to our business. Furthermore, a party making an infringement claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our software or require that we re-engineer some or all of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter costly royalty or license agreements. We may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed significantly if any of these events occurred, and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, we have agreed, and may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against claims that our software infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. Although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage may not apply to, and likely would not protect us from, liability that may be imposed under any of the types of claims described above. 29 We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. Our businesses are subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and foreign laws, regulations and policies. Changes to laws or regulations may require us to modify our business objectives if existing practices become more restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. Particular risks include regulatory risks arising from federal laws, such as laws regarding export of sensitive technologies or technical information. Our business and the industries in which we operate are also at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Our stockholder protection rights agreement and classified Board of Directors could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, which could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock. We have a stockholder protection rights agreement and a classified Board of Directors, which could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. This deterrent could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock and make it difficult to affect a change in the composition of the Board of Directors or a change in management of the Company. The price of our common stock is highly volatile and could decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate in response to, among other things: ¨ changes in economic and general market conditions; ¨ changes in the outlook and financial condition of certain of our significant customers and industries in which we have a concentration of business; ¨ changes in financial estimates, treatment of our tax assets or liabilities or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; ¨ changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations or principles; ¨ sales of common stock by our directors, officers and significant stockholders; ¨ our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts’ projections; and ¨ the operating and stock price performance of competitors. These factors might adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price at which you purchased it. In addition, in recent periods, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including ours and others in our industry. These changes can occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. A sustained decline in the price of our common stock or weaker than forecasted operating results could result in an impairment of our goodwill. In conjunction with business acquisitions, we record goodwill at fair value and review its fair value for impairment annually as of November 30, or on an interim basis if impairment indicators are present, such as a significant reduction in the Company’s market capitalization, significant declines in operating performance or disruptions to the business that could reduce the Company’s future cash flow. A quantitative assessment of goodwill was performed as of November 30, 2012 using several market-based valuation approaches as well as utilizing an income-based approach that discounts future cash flows of the Company. Based on the results of our assessment, we determined that there was no impairment of our goodwill at November 30, 2012. However, we can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as the result of changing conditions. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statement for information regarding our goodwill. 30 We have identified, and may identify in the future, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which may require us to divert management resources to remediate this material weakness. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In late 2012, the Company implemented a new system for financial reporting and accumulation of financial data. The new financial system is a significant component of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, but was not adopted in response to any deficiency in our internal controls. As of December 31, 2012, we had not completed the evaluation of the completeness, design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the new financial system. As a result of this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we performed additional review and analysis over our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012. As a result of these procedures, we believe that our consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We are currently in the process of completing our evaluation of the completeness, design and operating effectiveness of the new financial system. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. The effectiveness of any system of internal control over financial reporting is subject to inherent limitations, including the exercise of judgment in designing, implementing, operating and evaluating the controls and procedures. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. It is possible that additional control deficiencies may be identified in addition to, or that are unrelated to, the material weakness described above in future periods. Such material control weaknesses could, among other things, cause us to fail to identify and correct material misstatements in our financial reporting, prevent us from filing our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital markets, or prevent us from avoiding or detecting fraud. It is possible that we would need to incur additional costs and/or divert management resources to correct such material control weaknesses. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 