ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed on pages 3 and 4 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The Company believes that the following risk factors may cause the market price for its common stock to fluctuate, perhaps significantly. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The Company’s common stock has also experienced a relatively low trading volume, making it further susceptible to extreme price fluctuations. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 Management’s Discussio n and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes under Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 21 We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different, sometimes materially, than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that we encounter can be found in Item 1, Business and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have described certain important strategic risks below. Our reactions as well as our competitors’ reactions to material future developments may affect our future results. The Company’s business is largely dependent on sales to the nuclear power industry. Any disruption in this industry would have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s revenue. In 2010, 72% of GSE’s revenue was from customers in the nuclear power industry (73% in 2009 and 54% in 2008). The Company expects to derive a significant portion of its revenue from customers in the nuclear power industry for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to supply nuclear power plant simulators and related products and services is dependent on the continued operation of nuclear power plants and, to a lesser extent, on the construction of new nuclear power plants. A wide range of factors affect the continued operation and construction of nuclear power plants, including the political and regulatory environment, the availability and cost of alternative means of power generation, the occurrence of future nuclear incidents, and general economic conditions. On Thursday, March 10, 2011, Japan was hit by a significant earthquake and resulting tsunami that has caused extensive damage to the country’s northeastern coast. The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant has been damaged, and the plant’s nuclear reactors are being flooded with sea water to cool the fuel rods. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s $55.9 million backlog included $9.2 million that was related to contracts for significant upgrades to two nuclear plants for the Japan Atomic Power Company. The Company is unaware of any damage to these nuclear plants. Of this backlog, $5.4 million is expected to be converted to revenue in 2011. It is too early to determine if the recent events in Japan will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company’s global growth is subject to a number of economic and political risks. The Company conducts its operations in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Global economic developments affect businesses such as GSE, and the Company’s operations are subject to the effects of global competition. The Company’s global business is affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with the Company’s supply chain, its customers and all of its activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. The current global recession has not yet had a material impact on the Company& #8217;s business. The Company’s backlog as of December 31, 2010 totaled $55.9 million, a 3.7% increase over the Company’s backlog at December 31, 2009. The Company has seen no significant delays or cancellations to the projects it is currently working on and is unaware of any significant delays or cancellations to projects that the Company expects to secure in 2011. However, we may see an impact on the Company’s operations due to uncertainties and fluctuations as the economy recovers. The Company’s expense levels are based upon its expectations as to future revenue, so it may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for a revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall would likely have a disproportionate effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s revenue was $47.2 million, $40.1 million, and $29.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The Company’s operating income (loss) was $(1.2) million, $563,000, and $(12,000) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including purchasing patterns, timing of new products and enhancements by the Company and its competitors, and fluctuating global economic conditions. Since the Company’s expense levels are based in part on its expectations as to future revenue and includes certain fixed costs, the Company may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compens ate for any revenue shortfall and such revenue shortfalls would likely have a disproportionate adverse effect on operating results. Risk of International Sales and Operations. Sales of products and services to end users outside the United States accounted for approximately 71% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2010, 65% of consolidated revenue in 2009, and 63% of consolidated revenue in 2008. The Company anticipates that international sales and services will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenue in the foreseeable future. As a result, the Company may be subject to certain risks, including risks associated with the application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export (including export of high technology products) or otherwise resulting from trade or foreign policy and risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations. Additional risks include potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, quotas a nd other barriers, potential difficulties involving the Company’s strategic alliances and managing foreign sales agents or representatives and potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection. The Company currently sells products and provides services to customers in emerging market economies. The following emerging markets have provided more than 10% of the Company’s revenue for the indicated period: 22 Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Slovak Republic 22% 14% 0% Russian Federation 6% 12% 4% People's Republic of China 4% 8% 15% The Company has taken steps designed to reduce the additional risks associated with doing business in these countries, but the Company believes that such risks may still exist and include, among others, general political and economic instability, lack of currency convertibility, as well as uncertainty with respect to the efficacy of applicable legal systems. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s line of credit agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on the Company which may prevent it from capitalizing on business opportunities. GSE’s line of credit agreements with Bank of America ("BOA") impose operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions affect, and in certain cases limit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: ¨ incur additional indebtedness and liens; ¨ make investments and acquisitions; ¨ consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in the interest of stockholders. In addition, the line of credit agreements contained financial covenants with respect to the Company’s minimum tangible net worth, debt service coverage ratio, and funded debt to EBITDA ratio. At December 31, 2010 and throughout all of 2010, the Company had not paid any interest or principal payments related to any borrowings for over one year. As such the debt service coverage ratio is not applicable at December 31, 2010. The financial covenant calculations at December 31, 2010 are shown below: 23 As of Covenant Dec. 31, 2010 Tangible net worth Must Exceed $15.0 million $31.8 million Funded debt to EBITDA ratio Not to Exceed 2.50 : 1.00 (30.90) : 1.00 Due to the Company’s net loss of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company was in default on its funded debt to EBITDA ratio at December 31, 2010. Due to the Company’s financial covenant default, BOA has made the following amendments to the Company’s revolving credit agreements effective March 14, 2011: · A written waiver has been granted for the funded debt to EBITDA ratio default. · The $5.0 million principal line of credit has been terminated. · The financial covenants for the $2.5 million principal line of credit have been deleted. · The Company is required to cash collateralize all outstanding standby letters of credit, which totals $3.4 million. · All future letters of credit issued by BOA must be cash collateralized. · Borrowings under the line of credit must be cash collateralized. Currently the Company has in place a $600,000 certificate of deposit as collateral for the line of credit. At December 31, 2010, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $26.6 million and has $600,000 available under its $2.5 million line of credit. Of this amount $3.4 million will be restricted as cash collateral for the Company’s outstanding standby letters of credit in accordance with the March 14, 2011 amendment to the Company’s revolving credit agreement. The Company has entered into 2011 with $55.9 million of backlog; $37.7 million of which is expected to convert to revenue in 2011. The Company anticipates that its normal operations will generate all of the funds necessary to fund its consolidated operations during the next twelve months. The Company believes that it will have sufficient liquidity and working capital without additional financing. However, notwiths tanding the foregoing, the Company may be required to look for additional capital to fund its operations if the Company is unable to operate profitably and generate sufficient cash from operations. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in raising such additional funds. The Company is dependent on product innovation and research and development, which costs are incurred prior to revenue for new products and improvements. The Company believes that its success will depend in large part on its ability to maintain and enhance its current product line, develop new products, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer needs. The Company's product development activities are aimed at the development and expansion of its library of software modeling tools, the improvement of its display systems and workstation technologies, and the advancement and upgrading of its simulation technology. The life cycles for software modeling tools, graphical user interfaces, and simulation technology are variable and largely determined by competitive pressures. Consequently, the Company will need to continue to make significant investments in research and development to enhance and expand its capabilities in these areas and to maint ain its competitive advantage. 24 The Company relies upon its intellectual property rights for the success of its business; however, the steps it has taken to protect its intellectual property may be inadequate. Although the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are important to establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position, the Company's business depends, in part, on its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technology and information. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, and trademark law, contractual arrangements and technical means to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, joint venture and alliance partners, customers and other third parties that are granted access to its proprietary information, and limits access to and distributi on of its proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company has protected or will be able to protect its proprietary technology and information adequately, that the unauthorized disclosure or use of the Company's proprietary information will be prevented, that others have not or will not develop similar technology or information independently, or, to the extent the Company owns any patents in the future, that others have not or will not be able to design around those future patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which the Company's products are sold do not protect the Company's products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The industries in which GSE operates are highly competitive. This competition may prevent the Company from raising prices at the same pace as its costs increase. The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive environments with both domestic and foreign competitors, many of whom have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. The principal factors affecting competition include price, technological proficiency, ease of system configuration, product reliability, applications expertise, engineering support, local presence and financial stability. The Company believes that competition in the simulation fields may further intensify in the future as a result of advances in technology, consolidations and/or strategic alliances among competitors, increased costs required to develop new technology and the increasing importance of software content in systems and products. As the Company’s business has a significant international component, ch anges in the value of the dollar could adversely affect the Company's ability to compete internationally. GSE may pursue acquisitions and joint ventures, and any of these transactions could adversely affect its operating results or result in increased costs or related issues. The Company intends to pursue acquisitions and joint ventures, a pursuit which could consume substantial time and resources. Identifying appropriate acquisition candidates and negotiating and consummating acquisitions can be a lengthy and costly process. The Company may also encounter substantial unanticipated costs or other related issues such as compliance with new regulations and regulatory schemes, additional oversight, elimination of redundancy, and increased employee benefit costs associated with the acquired businesses. The risks inherent in this strategy could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operation or financial condition. The nuclear power industry, the Company’s largest customer group, is associated with a number of hazards which could create significant liabilities for the Company. 25 The Company’s business could expose it to third party claims with respect to product, environmental and other similar liabilities. Although the Company has sought to protect itself from these potential liabilities through a variety of legal and contractual provisions as well as through liability insurance, the effectiveness of such protections has not been fully tested. Certain of the Company’s products and services are used by the nuclear power industry primarily in operator training. Although the Company’s contracts for such products and services typically contain provisions designed to protect the Company from potential liabilities associated with such use, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be materially adversely affected by claims or actions which may potentially arise. The use of derivative instruments by the Company in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the Company’s net income. GSE periodically enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage market risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on foreign-denominated trade receivables. The Company could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. The Company minimizes credit exposure by limiting counterparties to internationally recognized financial institutions. The issuance of performance bonds and bid bonds by the Company in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the Company’s net income. The Company is often required to issue performance bonds to its customers as a normal part of its business activities. The Company’s customers may have the ability to draw upon these performance bonds in the event the Company fails to cure a material breach of the contract within 30 days of receiving notice from the customer regarding the nature of the breach. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has issued performance bonds on eight contracts totaling $4.7 million; the largest of these performance bonds was for $2.5 million. Although the Company expects no material breaches to occur on these contracts, if such a breach were to occur and the Company failed to cure such breach, the Company could incur a loss of up to $4.7 million. font> The Company is subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and foreign laws, regulations and policies. Changes to laws or regulations may require the Company to modify its business objectives if existing practices become more restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. Particular risks include regulatory risks arising from federal laws, such as laws regarding export of sensitive technologies or technical information. The Company’s business and the industries in which it operates are also at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 