Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Remote Dynamics, Inc. and our business. We have operated at a significant loss in recent periods, have a substantial working capital deficit, and may not have adequate funds to continue as a going concern. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and these losses will continue for the near future. We may not ever achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profits on a quarterly or annual basis. For 2008 and 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm issued an opinion on our financial statements which included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We do not expect to achieve positive operating cash flow until the second quarter of 2009. Our plans for 2009 include growing our subscriber base through direct sales to new and existing customers. However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our sales targets for 2009. Failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, despite actions to increase revenue and to improve profitability and cash flow, our operating losses will continue in 2009 and net operating cash outflows will continue into at least the second quarter of 2009. Critical success factors in our plans to achieve positive cash flow from operations include: · Ability to increase sales of the REDIview product line. · Retaining existing customers. · Training and development of new sales staff. There can be no assurances that any of these success factors will be realized or maintained. - 7 - - Table of Contents We had a working capital deficit of $3.4 million, excluding the gross amount of our outstanding secured convertible notes of $10.8 million, as of December 31, 2008. We believe that we will have sufficient capital to fund our ongoing operations through 2009, assuming that we are able to meet our sales targets and operating cost reduction plans and to negotiate acceptable payment arrangements with our senior security holders, vendors and other creditors. The sufficiency of our cash resources depends to a certain extent on general economic, financial, competitive or other factors beyond our control. We do not currently have any arrangements for additional financing and we may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, at the time when we need such financing. Further, our ability to secure certain types of additional financings is restricted under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate a transaction for additional capital prior to substantially depleting our available cash reserves, and our failure to do so may force us to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. We are currently not in compliance with our obligations under our senior securities and, as a result, our senior security holders may declare the securities immediately due and payable, we may be required to pay default interest, monetary liquidated damages and/or amounts in excess of the outstanding amount due under of the securities, and we may be forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. We are not in compliance with our obligations relating to our secured convertible notes and our convertible preferred stock, including with respect to our secured convertible notes, our failure to make required principal and other payments when due. Our non-compliance with the terms of the notes exposes us to the risk that our note holders could seek to exercise prepayment or other remedies under the notes. Events of default under the notes include: · our failure to make the principal installment amount on a designated principal payment date; · our failure to comply with our registration obligations with respect to shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the note or exercise of warrants issued to the note investors; · the suspension from listing or failure of our common stock to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or one of the major exchanges; · our notice to the holder of our inability to comply or intention not to comply with proper requests for conversion of the notes; · our default in the performance of any material covenant in the notes, the purchase agreement for the notes, the registration rights agreement relating to the notes or any other ancillary documents relating to the notes; · our making of a false or incorrect representation or warranty in the purchase agreement for the notes, the registration rights agreement relating to the notes or any other ancillary documents relating to the notes; · our default in any payment of principal or interest on the indebtedness represented by the notes, or default in the observance or performance of any other agreement relating to such indebtedness in excess of $100,000; · our application for appointment of a receiver or liquidator or filing a petition in bankruptcy or other similar relief which is not dismissed within 30 days; and · the filing of a proceeding against us seeking the liquidation, reorganization, or dissolution of us or similar relief which is not dismissed within 30 days. Upon the occurrence of an event of default on our secured convertible notes, the holders may (a) demand prepayment of the notes as described below, (b) demand that the principal amount of the notes then outstanding be converted into shares of our common stock at the conversion price discussed in more detail below, and/or (c) exercise any of the holder’s other rights or remedies under the transaction documents or applicable law. If the holders require us to prepay all or a portion of the notes, the prepayment price would be equal to 120% of the principal amount of the notes. The holders would also recover all other costs or expenses due in respect of the notes and the other transaction documents. - 8 - - Table of Contents Our failure to comply with our obligations relating to these securities also exposes us to default interest and liquidated damages claims by the note holders. As of December 31, 2008, we had incurred approximately $1,761,004 in default interest and liquidated damages under our secured convertible notes. The holders of shares of convertible preferred stock have the right to cause us to redeem any or all of their shares at a price equal to 100% of face value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends, upon the occurrence of specified events, including our breach of any material term under the related financing documents (subject to applicable notice and cure periods). We do not currently have the cash on hand to repay amounts due under our secured convertible notes or other senior securities if the holders elect to exercise their repayment or other remedies. If our efforts to restructure or otherwise satisfy our obligations under the securities are unsuccessful, and we are unable to raise enough money to cover the amounts payable under the securities, we may be forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. We are repaying our secured convertible notes in shares of our common stock valued at a discount of the common stock’s trading price which results in a significant issuance of new shares of common stock to the note holders and causes material dilution to the then existing holders of our common stock. We issued a significant number of shares of our common stock in payment of amounts due under our secured convertible notes during 2008 and expect to continue to do so in 2009 and thereafter. Under the terms of the notes, we have issued the shares at a discount to the trading price of our common stock. In general, the shares issued are available for immediate resale by the holders in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In 2008, and through March 25, 2009, we issued 3,067,407,599 shares of common stock as partial principal payments on the Series A Notes in satisfaction of $1,150,000 of obligations due under the notes. Additionally, we issued 1,065,811,416 shares of common stock as partial payments on the Series B Notes in satisfaction of $450,000 of obligations due under the notes. To accommodate these share issuances, we completed an increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock to 750,000,000 and a one-for-fifty reverse stock split of our common stock on November 20, 2007 and a further increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock to 5,000,000,000 and a one-for-four-hundred reverse stock split on August 13, 2008. We are in the process of increasing our authorized shares of common stock to 15,000,000,000. We anticipate that we will issue the full number of newly authorized shares of common stock in 2009 in payment of amounts due under, or in connection with the conversion of, our outstanding convertible securities. As of March 25, 2009, we would have to issue 85,299,736,567 shares of our common stock to repay amounts outstanding under our senior secured notes. Accordingly, we will likely need to implement additional reverse stock splits and/or increases in our authorized shares to meet our obligations to note holders. There are a large number of shares of common stock underlying our senior securities that may be available for future sale and the sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 25, 2009, we had outstanding $3,044,516 principal amount of our Series A Notes and $6,948,439 principal amount of our Series B Notes, in each case, excluding accrued default interest and liquidated damages payable. To repay these amounts in shares of our common stock (utilizing the most recent conversion price), we would have to issue 85,299,736,567 shares of our common stock. In general, any shares of common stock we issue in respect of our senior securities will be available for immediate resale by the holders in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. - 9 - - Table of Contents Sales of significant amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could materially decrease the market price of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We have pledged all of our assets to existing creditors. Our secured convertible notes are secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. A default by us under the secured convertible notes would enable the holders of the notes to take control of substantially all of our assets. The holders of the secured convertible notes have no operating experience in our industry and if we were to default and the note holders were to take over control of our Company, they could force us to substantially curtail or cease our operations. If this happens, an investor could lose their entire investment in our common stock. In addition, the existence of our asset pledges to the holders of the secured convertible notes will make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing required to repay monies borrowed by us, continue our business operations and pursue our growth strategy. Potential future offerings could dilute the interest of our common stockholders. We expect in the future to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity and debt securities, including classes of preferred stock and common stock. However, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain any such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. The effect of additional equity offerings may be the dilution of the equity of our stockholders or the reduction of the price of shares of our common stock, or both. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of additional offerings as they will depend upon market conditions and other factors. BMSI can vote an aggregate of 96.0% of the voting power of our common stock and can exercise control over corporate decisions including the appointment of directors. BMSI can vote an aggregate of 101,420,687,948 shares (or 96.0%) of the voting power of our common stock. Accordingly, BMSI will exercise control in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters, including the election of directors, mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Our other stockholders will be minority shareholders and as such will have little to no say in the direction of the Company and the election of directors. Additionally, it will be difficult if not impossible for investors to remove designees of BMSI as directors of the Company, which will mean BMSI will remain in control of who serves as officers of the Company as well as whether any changes are made in the Board of Directors. Potential investors in the Company should be aware that even if they own shares of our common stock and wish to vote them at annual or special shareholder meetings, their shares will likely have little effect on the outcome of corporate decisions. The certificates of designation for our Series C and Series B convertible preferred stock contain restrictions on our ability to take certain actions without the approval of the Series C and Series B convertible preferred stockholders, including entering into mergers or issuing additional debt or equity, and also contains certain mandatory redemption events which could force us to redeem shares when we do not have the funds to do so. We are prohibited from taking numerous actions without the approval of the holders of at least a majority of our series C, and, in certain cases, our series B convertible preferred stock, including, without limitation: · amending our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · redeeming securities; · entering into an asset sale, merger or similar transaction; · creating or issuing senior or pari passu securities; or · issuing equity or debt securities. - 10 - - Table of Contents Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the approval of our convertible preferred stockholders needed to complete a necessary or advisable financing transaction, or necessary to effect any other transaction that our board of directors deems to be in the best interests of our stockholders. The certificate of designations for our convertible preferred stock also contain numerous redemption events, including any breach by us of any of the transaction documents pursuant to which we issued the securities. If any of these redemption events were to occur, the holders of our convertible preferred stock could force us to redeem their shares. We may not have the funds available to affect a forced redemption and the holders could take further actions such as forcing us into involuntary bankruptcy. We face significant competition in the automatic vehicle location marketplace. Our REDIview product faces significant competition from internal development teams of customers and potential customers and from several other suppliers of similar products, many of which may have greater name recognition and greater financial and technological resources. As the demand by business for mobile tracking services increase, the quality, functionality and breadth of competing products and services will likely improve and new competitors may enter the market. Further, the adoption of widespread industry standards may make it easier for new market entrants or existing competitors to improve their existing services, to offer some or all of the services we presently offer or may offer in the future, or to offer new services that we do not offer. We can provide no assurance that our products will compete successfully with the products of our competitors or that we will adapt to changes in the business, regulatory or technological environment as successfully as our competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully, our ability to acquire or retain customers may be limited which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adapt to shifts in technology in the wireless communications industry. Technology in the wireless communications industry is in a rapid and continuing state of change as new technologies and enhancements to existing technologies continue to be introduced. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs and that anticipate or respond to technological changes on a timely and cost-effective basis. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with technological developments. Our failure to develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs and that anticipate or respond to technological changes on a timely and cost-effective basis could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If wireless carriers on which we depend for services decide to abandon or do not continue to expand their wireless networks, we may lose subscribers and our revenues could decrease. Currently, our automatic vehicle location products rely primarily on GSM/GPRS networks. GPRS is the internet protocol-based dedicated high speed wireless data channel for the GSM wireless network. If wireless carriers abandon these protocols in favor of other types of wireless technology, we may not be able to provide services to our customers. In addition, if wireless carriers do not expand their coverage areas, we will be unable to meet the needs of our customers who may wish to use some of our services outside the current coverage area. We rely primarily on AT&T Wireless for the provision of GSM/GPRS data services to our REDIview customers and our inability to renew our agreements with AT&T Wireless may require us to retrofit our installed base of REDIview units. We provide GSM/GPRS data services to our REDIview customers pursuant to a data reseller agreement with AT&T Wireless effective as of November 1, 2004 and a messaging agreement effective September 27, 2004. The data reseller agreement and messaging agreement have an initial term of 2 years and automatically renews for successive one year terms unless either party provides the other party with written notice of termination at least 30 days prior to the end of the initial term or any renewal term. However, the data reseller agreement and the messaging agreement may be terminated by AT&T or by us for convenience upon 90 days prior written notice. - 11 - - Table of Contents If AT&T terminates the data reseller agreement and messaging agreement and ceases to provide GSM/GPRS services to us for resale to our customers, the REDIview units in our base of installed REDIview customers would no longer be able to send or receive data messages until we could reach an agreement with another provider and retrofit such units to utilize the GSM/GPRS service of this alternative provider. There can be no assurances that we would be able to reach an agreement with another wireless carrier for GSM/GPRS service and/or retrofit our existing REDIview customer base to utilize the GSM/GPRS service of the alternative provider. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on Global Positioning System technology owned and controlled by others. If we do not have continued access to GPS technology or satellites, our REDIview product line will cease to function. Our REDIview products depend upon signals from GPS satellites built and maintained by the U.S. Department of Defense. GPS satellites and their ground support systems are subject to electronic and mechanical failures and sabotage. If one or more satellites malfunction, there could be a substantial delay before they are repaired or replaced, if at all, and our products and services may cease to function. In addition, the U.S. government could decide not to continue to operate and maintain GPS satellites over a long period of time or to charge for the use of GPS. Furthermore, because of ever-increasing commercial applications of GPS and international political unrest, U.S. government agencies may become increasingly involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of GPS signals in the future. If factors such as these affect GPS by affecting the availability, quality, accuracy or pricing of GPS technology, these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any natural disaster, terrorist attack or other occurrence that renders our network service center inoperable could significantly hinder the delivery of our services to our customers because we lack an effective remote back-up communications system. Currently, our disaster recovery systems focus on internal redundancy and diverse routing within the network services center operated by us. We do not currently have a remote back-up communications system that would enable us to continue to provide mobile communications services to our customers in the event of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other occurrence that rendered our network services center inoperable. Accordingly, our business is subject to the risk that this disaster, attack, security intrusion by a computer hacker or other occurrence could hinder or prevent us from providing services to some or all of our customers. The delay in the delivery of our services could cause some of our customers to discontinue business with us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the efforts of Gary Hallgren, our Chief Executive Officer, and Greg Jones, our Senior Vice President, Operations. We maintain employment agreements with these executives which expire in February 2010. In addition, we are also dependent upon a group of our employees possessing valuable technical skills. The loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our officers or employees. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel required in connection with the growth and development of our business. - 12 - - Table of Contents Increases in the wholesale rates for digital wireless service could reduce our service margin. We currently purchase digital wireless service at wholesale rates to operate certain parts of our business. While we presently have no reason to belief that these rates will increase, these rates are outside of our control and any increase in the digital wireless serviced may have a material adverse effect on our costs which could decrease our profit margins and revenues. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business by creating additional costs related to the payment or settlement of these claims. It is possible that the operation of our products may give rise to product liability claims. Product liability claims present a risk of protracted litigation, substantial money damages, attorney’s fees, costs and expenses and diversion of our management’s attention. Product liability claims that exceed policy limits applicable to our liability insurance or that are excluded from the policy coverage could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in industry-specific government regulations could require us to materially increase our expenses to pay compliance fees. We believe that our products and services are currently exempt from both Federal Communications Commission and state regulations. We rely on our long-distance providers and wireless providers to comply with any applicable regulatory requirements. In the event that our services are reclassified as “telecommunications services,” we could be forced to expend substantial time, money and resources to comply with the applicable regulations and contribute to applicable universal services funds mandated by federal regulations. An event like this could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations owing to this increase in expenses. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others. Our products and services are highly dependent upon our technology and the scope and limitations of our proprietary intellectual property rights. In order to protect our technology, we rely on a combination of copyrights and trade secret laws, as well as certain customer licensing agreements, employee and third-party confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other similar arrangements. If our assertion of proprietary intellectual property rights is held to be invalid, or if another party’s use of our technology were to occur to any substantial degree, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Several of our competitors have obtained and can be expected to obtain patents that cover products or services directly or indirectly related to those which we offer. Our management attempts to be aware of patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products or services. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued; accordingly, our management cannot evaluate the extent to which our products or services may infringe on future patent rights being sought by others. In general, if it were determined that any of our products, services or planned enhancements infringed valid patent rights held by others, we would be required to obtain licenses to develop and market these products, services or enhancements from the holders of the patents, to redesign such products or services to avoid infringement, or to cease marketing such products or services or developing the enhancements. In this event, we also might be required to pay past royalties or other damages. We can provide no assurance that, should it become necessary, we would be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or that we would be able to design or redesign our products to incorporate alternative technologies, without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 13 - - Table of Contents Our adoption of “Reverse Merger Accounting” makes comparisons of our financial position and results of operations with those of prior fiscal periods more difficult. In connection with our acquisition of BounceGPS in December 2006, we implemented “Reverse Merger Accounting” in accordance with FAS 141 “Accounting for Business Combinations” whereby our financial statements reflect the historical operations of BounceGPS as they are the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, BounceGPS is deemed to be the purchaser and surviving company for accounting purposes and its net assets are included in the balance sheet at their historical book values and the results of operations of BounceGPS have been presented for the comparative prior period. The results of operations of Remote Dynamics, Inc. are included in our financial statements subsequent to December 4, 2006 with the purchase price allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities of Remote Dynamics, Inc. as of December 4, 2006. As a result, the consolidated financial statements for periods after our reverse merger are not comparable to our consolidated financial statements for the periods prior to our reverse merger. The application of “Reverse Merger Accounting” makes it more difficult to compare our post-merger operations and results to those in pre-merger periods and could therefore adversely affect trading in and the liquidity of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and state law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. We have adopted a certificate of incorporation and bylaws, which in addition to state law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that any one of our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · authorizing the board to issue blank check preferred stock on terms it deems advisable; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; and · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; We have adopted a certificate of incorporation that permits our board to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval (other than approvals of the series B and series C convertible preferred stockholders currently required), which means that our board could issue shares with special voting rights or other provisions that could deter a takeover. In addition to delaying or preventing an acquisition, the issuance of a substantial number of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock and dilute existing stockholders. The price of our common stock is volatile. Historically, market prices for securities of emerging companies in the telecommunications industry have been highly volatile. Future announcements concerning our business, our financial condition, the business of our competitors or our wireless providers, including results of technological innovations, new commercial products, financial transactions, government regulations, proprietary rights or product or patent litigation, may have a significant impact on the market price of shares of our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been highly volatile in recent periods and our common stock is often thinly traded. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, to develop and expand our business. - 14 - - Table of Contents 