ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed on pages 3 and 4 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The Company believes that the following risk factors may cause the market price for its common stock to fluctuate, perhaps significantly. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The Company’s common stock has also experienced a relatively low trading volume, making it further susceptible to extreme price fluctuations. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different, sometimes materially, than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that we encounter can be found in Item 1, Business and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have described certain important strategic risks below. Our reactions as well as our competitors’ reactions to material future developments may affect our future results. The Company’s global growth is subject to a number of economic and political risks. The Company conducts its operations in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Global economic developments affect businesses such as GSE, and the Company’s operations are subject to the effects of global competition. The Company’s global business is affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with the Company’s supply chain, its customers and all of its activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. The current global recession has not yet had a material impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s backlog as of December 31, 2008 totaled $38.1 million, a 54.9% increase over the Company’s backlog at December 31, 2007. The Company has seen no significant delays or cancellations to the projects it is currently working on and is unaware of any significant delays or cancellations to projects that the Company expects to secure in 2009. However, as the recession continues, we may see a significant impact on the Company’s operations. 18 The Company’s expense levels are based upon its expectations as to future revenue, so it may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for a revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall would likely have a disproportionate effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s revenue was $29.0 million, $31.9 million, and $27.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company’s operating income (loss) was $(12,000), $2.2 million and $2.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including purchasing patterns, timing of new products and enhancements by the Company and its competitors, and fluctuating global economic conditions. Since the Company’s expense levels are based in part on its expectations as to future revenue and includes certain fixed costs, the Company may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall and such revenue shortfalls would likely have a disproportionate adverse effect on operating results. Risk of International Sales and Operations. Sales of products and services to end users outside the United States accounted for approximately 63% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2008, 71% of consolidated revenue in 2007, and 74% of consolidated revenue in 2006. The Company anticipates that international sales and services will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenue in the foreseeable future. As a result, the Company may be subject to certain risks, including risks associated with the application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export (including export of high technology products) or otherwise resulting from trade or foreign policy and risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations. Additional risks include potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, quotas and other barriers, potential difficulties involving the Company’s strategic alliances and managing foreign sales agents or representatives and potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection. The Company currently sells products and provides services to customers in emerging market economies. The following emerging markets have provided more than 10% of the Company’s revenue for the indicated period: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Peoples' Republic of China 15% 4% 0% Russian Federation 4% 9% 12% United Arab Emirates 4% 31% 12% The Company has taken steps designed to reduce the additional risks associated with doing business in these countries, but the Company believes that such risks may still exist and include, among others, general political and economic instability, lack of currency convertibility, as well as uncertainty with respect to the efficacy of applicable legal systems. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s business is largely dependent on sales to the nuclear power industry. Any disruption in this industry would have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s revenue. 19 In 2008, 54% of GSE’s revenue was from customers in the nuclear power industry (45% in 2007 and 60% in 2006). The Company expects to derive a significant portion of its revenue from customers in the nuclear power industry for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to supply nuclear power plant simulators and related products and services is dependent on the continued operation of nuclear power plants and, to a lesser extent, on the construction of new nuclear power plants. A wide range of factors affect the continued operation and construction of nuclear power plants, including the political and regulatory environment, the availability and cost of alternative means of power generation, the occurrence of future nuclear incidents, and general economic conditions. The Company’s line of credit agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on the Company which may prevent it from capitalizing on business opportunities. GSE’s line of credit agreement with Bank of America (BOA) imposes operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions affect, and in certain cases limit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: ¨ incur additional indebtedness and liens; ¨ make investments and acquisitions; ¨ consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in the interest of stockholders. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in default on two of its financial covenants; however, it has received a written waiver from BOA. The Company’s available borrowing base under the two lines of credit was $3.2 million at December 31, 2008, of which $105,000 had been utilized to collateralize a standby letter of credit. The Company is dependent on product innovation and research and development, which costs are incurred prior to revenue for new products and improvements. The Company believes that its success will depend in large part on its ability to maintain and enhance its current product line, develop new products, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer needs. The Company's product development activities are aimed at the development and expansion of its library of software modeling tools, the improvement of its display systems and workstation technologies, and the advancement and upgrading of its simulation technology. The life cycles for software modeling tools, graphical user interfaces, and simulation technology are variable and largely determined by competitive pressures. Consequently, the Company will need to continue to make significant investments in research and development to enhance and expand its capabilities in these areas and to maintain its competitive advantage. The Company relies upon its intellectual property rights for the success of its business; however, the steps it has taken to protect its intellectual property may be inadequate. Although the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are important to establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position, the Company's business depends, in part, on its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technology and information. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, and trademark law, contractual arrangements and technical means to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, joint venture and alliance partners, customers and other third parties that are granted access to its proprietary information, and limits access to and distribution of its proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company has protected or will be able to protect its proprietary technology and information adequately, that the unauthorized disclosure or use of the Company's proprietary information will be prevented, that others have not or will not develop similar technology or information independently, or, to the extent the Company owns any patents in the future, that others have not or will not be able to design around those future patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which the Company's products are sold do not protect the Company's products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 20 The industries in which GSE operates are highly competitive. This competition may prevent the Company from raising prices at the same pace as its costs increase. The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive environments with both domestic and foreign competitors, many of whom have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. The principal factors affecting competition include price, technological proficiency, ease of system configuration, product reliability, applications expertise, engineering support, local presence and financial stability. The Company believes that competition in the simulation fields may further intensify in the future as a result of advances in technology, consolidations and/or strategic alliances among competitors, increased costs required to develop new technology and the increasing importance of software content in systems and products. As the Company’s business has a significant international component, changes in the value of the dollar could adversely affect the Company's ability to compete internationally. GSE may pursue new acquisitions and joint ventures, and any of these transactions could adversely affect its operating results or result in increased costs or related issues. The Company intends to pursue new acquisitions and joint ventures, a pursuit which could consume substantial time and resources. Identifying appropriate acquisition candidates and negotiating and consummating acquisitions can be a lengthy and costly process. The Company may also encounter substantial unanticipated costs or other related issues such as compliance with new regulations and regulatory schemes, additional oversight, elimination of redundancy, and increased employee benefit costs associated with the acquired businesses. The risks inherent in this strategy could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operation or financial condition. The nuclear power industry, the Company’s largest customer group, is associated with a number of hazards which could create significant liabilities for the Company. The Company’s business could expose it to third party claims with respect to product, environmental and other similar liabilities. Although the Company has sought to protect itself from these potential liabilities through a variety of legal and contractual provisions as well as through liability insurance, the effectiveness of such protections has not been fully tested. Certain of the Company’s products and services are used by the nuclear power industry primarily in operator training. Although the Company’s contracts for such products and services typically contain provisions designed to protect the Company from potential liabilities associated with such use, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be materially adversely affected by claims or actions which may potentially arise. The use of derivative instruments by the Company in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the Company’s net income. 21 GSE periodically enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage market risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on foreign-denominated trade receivables. The Company could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. The Company minimizes credit exposure by limiting counterparties to internationally recognized financial institutions. The Company, as a 10% owner of ESA, has provided a partial guarantee totaling $1.2 million for the credit facility that Union National Bank has extended to ESA. ESA is a start-up entity; if it is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and defaults on its credit facility, GSE may have to provide up to $1.2 million to Union National Bank to cover ESA’s obligations. In May 2007, the Company deposited $1.2 million into a restricted, interest-bearing account at Union National Bank (“UNB”) in the United Arab Emirates as a partial guarantee for the $11.8 million credit facility that UNB has extended to ESA. The guarantee will be in place until the expiration of the ESA credit facility on December 31, 2014 or earlier if ESA pays down and terminates the facility. Both of the other two owners of ESA, Al Qudra Holding PJSC and the Centre of Excellence for Applied Research and Training, both located in the United Arab Emirates, have each provided to UNB a bank guarantee for 100% of the $11.8 million ESA credit facility. In the event that ESA should default upon their UNB loan, UNB can utilize all or a portion of the guarantees that the three owners have provided to cover ESA’s outstanding borrowings against the credit facility and accrued interest payable. Thus, if such a default were to occur, GSE may incur a loss of up to $1.2 million. In January 2006, the Company received a $15.1 million contract from ESA to supply five simulators and an integrated training program. The Company received change orders totaling $1.8 million from ESA which increased the total order value to $16.9 million. Under the terms of the contract, the Company provided a $2.1 million performance bond to ESA that will remain outstanding until September 30, 2009, the end of the contract warranty period. The Company has provided a cash-collateralized standby letter of credit to ESA which can be drawn upon by ESA in the event the Company fails to cure a material breach of the contract within 30 days of receiving written notice from ESA regarding the nature of the breach. The project is currently in the one-year warranty period which ends on September 30, 2009, and the Company expects no such material breach, however, if ESA were to draw upon the standby letter of credit, GSE would incur a loss of up to $2.1 million. The Company accounts for its investment in ESA using the equity method. Accordingly, the Company will record 10% of ESA’s net income (loss) as an adjustment of its investment. As ESA is a start-up entity (it had its formal opening on January 14, 2009), it is likely that it will incur net losses for some period of time. Under the equity method, the Company is required to record 10% of such losses as a charge to other income (expense) and as a reduction of its investment in ESA; in 2008 and 2007 the Company recorded an equity loss of $213,000 and $54,000, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s investment in ESA totaled $718,000 and $445,000. Depending on ESA’s future performance, the Company may be required to impair a portion or all of this investment. The Company is subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. 22 The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and foreign laws, regulations and policies. Changes to laws or regulations may require the Company to modify its business objectives if existing practices become more restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. Particular risks include regulatory risks arising from federal laws, such as laws regarding export of sensitive technologies or technical information. The Company’s business and the industries in which it operates are also at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 