ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed on page 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The Company believes that the following risk factors may cause the market price for its common stock to fluctuate, perhaps significantly. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The Company’s common stock has also experienced a relatively low trading volume, making it further susceptible to extreme price fluctuations. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 18 We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different, sometimes materially, than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that we encounter can be found in Item 1, Business and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have described certain important strategic risks below. Our reactions as well as our competitors’ reactions to material future developments may affect our future results. The Company’s global growth is subject to a number of economic and political risks. The Company conducts its operations in Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Global economic developments affect businesses such as GSE and the Company’s operations are subject to the effects of global competition. The Company’s global business is affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with the Company’s supply chain, its customers and all of its activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. The Company’s expense levels are based upon its expectations as to future revenue, so it may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for a revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall would likely have a disproportionate effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s revenue was $31.9 million, $27.5 million, and $22.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company’s operating income (loss) was $2.2 million, $2.1 million and ($4.7 million) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including purchasing patterns, timing of new products and enhancements by the Company and its competitors, and fluctuating foreign economic conditions. Since the Company’s expense levels are based in part on its expectations as to future revenue and includes certain fixed costs, the Company may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any revenue shortfall and such revenue shortfalls would likely have a disproportionate adverse effect on operating results. Risk of International Sales and Operations. Sales of products and services to end users outside the United States accounted for approximately 71% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2007, 74% of consolidated revenue in 2006, and 63% of consolidated revenue in 2005. The Company anticipates that international sales and services will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenue in the foreseeable future. As a result, the Company may be subject to certain risks, including risks associated with the application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export (including export of high technology products) or otherwise resulting from trade or foreign policy and risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations. Additional risks include potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, quotas and other barriers, potential difficulties involving the Company’s strategic alliances and managing foreign sales agents or representatives and potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection. The Company currently sells products and provides services to customers in emerging market economies such as the United Arab Emirates (31% and 21% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively, but none in 2005) and Russia (9% and 12% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively, but none in 2005). Although end users in the Ukraine accounted for 4%, 8%, and 18% of the Company’s consolidated revenue in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, GSE’s customer for these projects was Battelle’s Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, which is the purchasing agent for the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE"). The DOE provides funding for various projects in Eastern and Central Europe. Accordingly, the Company is not subject to the political and financial risks that are normally faced when doing business in the Ukraine. The Company has taken steps designed to reduce the additional risks associated with doing business in these countries, but the Company believes that such risks may still exist and include, among others, general political and economic instability, lack of currency convertibility, as well as uncertainty with respect to the efficacy of applicable legal systems. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, one customer provided a substantial portion of the Company’s consolidated revenue. The Company will not generate the same level of revenue from this customer in future periods, and there is no guarantee that the Company will replace this revenue from other customers. The loss of this revenue would cause a material adverse effect upon the Company’s future revenue and results of operations. 19 For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Emirates Simulation Academy, LLC (UAE) provided 31% of the Company’s consolidated 2007 revenue (21% in 2006 and none in 2005). The Company will not generate comparable revenue from this customer in future periods and may not be able to replace this revenue from other customers, thus materially and adversely affecting the Company’s revenue and results of operations. The Company’s business is largely dependent on sales to the nuclear power industry. Any disruption in this industry would have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s revenue. In 2007, 45% of GSE’s revenue was from customers in the nuclear power industry (60% in 2006 and 83% in 2005). The Company will continue to derive a significant portion of its revenue from customers in the nuclear power industry for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to supply nuclear power plant simulators and related products and services is dependent on the continued operation of nuclear power plants and, to a lesser extent, on the construction of new nuclear power plants. A wide range of factors affect the continued operation and construction of nuclear power plants, including the political and regulatory environment, the availability and cost of alternative means of power generation, the occurrence of future nuclear incidents, and general economic conditions. The Company expects to finalize a new line of credit agreement with Bank of America by March 31, 2008. This agreement will impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent the Company from capitalizing on business opportunities. GSE’s line of credit agreement with Bank of America will impose significant operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions will affect, and in certain cases limit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: ¨ incur additional indebtedness and liens; ¨ make capital expenditures; ¨ make investments and acquisitions; ¨ consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in the interest of stockholders. The Company is dependent on product innovation and research and development, which costs are incurred prior to revenue for new products and improvements. The Company believes that its success will depend in large part on its ability to maintain and enhance its current product line, develop new products, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer needs. The Company's product development activities are aimed at the development and expansion of its library of software modeling tools, the improvement of its display systems and workstation technologies, and the advancement and upgrading of its simulation technology. The life cycles for software modeling tools, graphical user interfaces, and simulation technology are variable and largely determined by competitive pressures. Consequently, the Company will need to continue to make significant investments in research and development to enhance and expand its capabilities in these areas and to maintain its competitive advantage. 20 The Company relies upon its intellectual property rights for the success of its business; however, the steps it has taken to protect its intellectual property may be inadequate. Although the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are important to establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position, the Company's business depends, in part, on its intellectual property rights in its proprietary technology and information. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, and trademark law, contractual arrangements and technical means to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, joint venture and alliance partners, customers and other third parties that are granted access to its proprietary information, and limits access to and distribution of its proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company has protected or will be able to protect its proprietary technology and information adequately, that the unauthorized disclosure or use of the Company's proprietary information will be prevented, that others have not or will not develop similar technology or information independently, or, to the extent the Company owns any patents in the future, that others have not or will not be able to design around those future patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which the Company's products are sold do not protect the Company's products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The industries in which GSE operates are highly competitive. This competition may prevent the Company from raising prices at the same pace as its costs increase. The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive environments with both domestic and foreign competitors, many of whom have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. The principal factors affecting competition include price, technological proficiency, ease of system configuration, product reliability, applications expertise, engineering support, local presence and financial stability. The Company believes that competition in the simulation fields may further intensify in the future as a result of advances in technology, consolidations and/or strategic alliances among competitors, increased costs required to develop new technology and the increasing importance of software content in systems and products. As the Company’s business has a significant international component, changes in the value of the dollar could adversely affect the Company's ability to compete internationally. GSE may pursue new acquisitions and joint ventures, and any of these transactions could adversely affect its operating results or result in increased costs or related issues. The Company intends to pursue new acquisitions and joint ventures, a pursuit which could consume substantial time and resources. Identifying appropriate acquisition candidates and negotiating and consummating acquisitions can be a lengthy and costly process. The Company may also encounter substantial unanticipated costs or other related issues such as compliance with new regulations and regulatory schemes, additional oversight, elimination of redundancy, and increased employee benefit costs associated with the acquired businesses. The risks inherent in this strategy could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operation or financial condition. 21 The nuclear power industry, the Company’s largest customer group, is associated with a number of hazards which could create significant liabilities for the Company. The Company’s business could expose it to third party claims with respect to product, environmental and other similar liabilities. Although the Company has sought to protect itself from these potential liabilities through a variety of legal and contractual provisions as well as through liability insurance, the effectiveness of such protections has not been fully tested. Certain of the Company’s products and services are used by the nuclear power industry primarily in operator training. Although the Company’s contracts for such products and services typically contain provisions designed to protect the Company from potential liabilities associated with such use, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be materially adversely affected by claims or actions which may potentially arise. The Company, as a 10% owner of ESA, has provided a partial guarantee totaling $1.2 million for the credit facility that Union National Bank has extended to ESA. ESA is a start-up entity; if it is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and defaults on its credit facility, GSE may have to provide up to $1.2 million to Union National Bank to cover ESA’s obligations. In May 2007, the Company deposited $1.2 million into a restricted, interest-bearing account at Union National Bank (“UNB”) in the United Arab Emirates as a partial guarantee for the $11.8 million credit facility that UNB has extended to ESA. The guarantee will be in place until the expiration of the ESA credit facility on December 31, 2014 or earlier if ESA pays down and terminates the facility. Both of the other two owners of ESA, Al Qudra Holding PJSC and the Centre of Excellence for Applied Research and Training, both located in the United Arab Emirates, have each provided to UNB a bank guarantee for 100% of the $11.8 million ESA credit facility. In the event that ESA should default upon their UNB loan, UNB can utilize all or a portion of the guarantees that the three owners have provided to cover ESA’s outstanding borrowings against the credit facility and accrued interest payable. Thus, if such a default were to occur, GSE may incur a loss of up to $1.2 million. In January 2006, the Company received a $15.1 million contract from ESA to supply five simulators and an integrated training program. A $1.7 million change order was received from ESA in late 2007 increasing the total order value to $16.8 million. Under the terms of the contract, the Company provided a $2.1 million performance bond to ESA that will remain outstanding until October 31, 2008. The Company has provided a cash-collateralized standby letter of credit to ESA which can be drawn upon by ESA in the event the Company fails to cure a material breach of the contract within 30 days of receiving written notice from ESA regarding the nature of the breach. Although the contract is expected to be complete in early 2008 and no such material breach is expected, if ESA were to draw upon the standby letter of credit, GSE would incur a loss of up to $2.1 million. The Company accounts for its investment in ESA using the equity method. Accordingly, the Company will record 10% of ESA’s net income (loss) as an adjustment of its investment. As ESA is a start-up entity, it is likely that it will incur net losses for some period of time. Under the equity method, the Company is required to record 10% of such losses as a charge to other income (expense) and as a reduction of its investment in ESA; in 2007 the Company recorded an equity loss of $54,000. At December 31, 2007 the Company’s investment in ESA totaled $445,000. Depending on ESA’s future performance, the Company may be required to write off a portion or all of this investment. The Company is subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and foreign laws, regulations and policies. Changes to laws or regulations may require the Company to modify its business objectives if existing practices become more restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. Particular risks include regulatory risks arising from federal laws, such as laws regarding export of sensitive technologies or technical information. The Company’s business and the industries in which it operates are also at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 