Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, any one of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. You should read and carefully consider these risk factors, and the entirety of this report, before you invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business Our performance may be impacted by general economic conditions and an economic downturn. Recessionary pressures from an overall decline in U.S. economic activity could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. Economic uncertainty may reduce consumer spending and could result in increased pressure from competitors or customers to reduce the prices of Company products and/or limit the Company’s ability to increase or maintain prices, which could lower revenues and profitability. Instability in the financial markets may impact the Company’s ability or increase the cost to enter into new credit agreements in the future. Additionally, it may weaken the ability of customers, suppliers, distributors, banks, insurance companies and other business partners to perform in the normal course of business, which could expose the Company to losses or disrupt supply of inputs used to conduct the Company’s business. If one or more key business partners fail to perform as expected or contracted, the Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted. We may incur significant future expenses due to the implementation of our business strategy. The Company is striving to achieve its long-term vision of being a leading marketer and manufacturer of healthy/natural and indulgent specialty snack food brands. Such action is subject to the substantial risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the implementation of a business strategy. Even if the Company is successful in developing, acquiring and/or licensing new brands, and increasing distribution and sales volume of the Company’s existing products, this business strategy may require the Company to incur substantial additional expenses, including advertising and promotional costs, “slotting” expenses (i.e., the cost of obtaining shelf or freezer space in certain grocery stores), and integration costs of any future acquisitions. Accordingly, the Company may incur additional losses in the future as a result of the implementation of the Company’s business strategy, even if revenues increase significantly. We may not be able to obtain the additional financing we need to implement our business strategy. A significant element of the Company’s business strategy is the development, acquisition and/or licensing of innovative specialty food brands, for the purpose of expanding, complementing and/or diversifying the Company’s business. In connection with each of the Company’s previous acquisitions, the Company borrowed funds or assumed additional indebtedness in order to satisfy a substantial portion of the consideration required to be paid by the Company. The Company may, in the future, require additional third party financing (debt or equity) as a result of any future operating losses, in connection with the expansion of the Company’s business through non-acquisition means, in connection with any additional acquisitions completed by the Company, or to provide working capital for general corporate purposes. Third party financing may not be available when required or, if available, may not be on terms attractive to the Company. Any third party financing obtained by the Company may result in dilution of the equity interests of the Company’s shareholders. We expect some of our future growth to be derived in part, from acquisitions, but our acquisition strategy may not be successful, or we may not be successful integrating acquisitions. An element of the Company’s business strategy is the pursuit of selected strategic acquisition opportunities for the purpose of expanding, complementing and/or diversifying the Company’s business. The Company may not be able to identify, finance and complete successful acquisitions on acceptable terms. Any future acquisitions could divert management’s attention from the daily operations of the Company and otherwise require additional management, operational and financial resources. Moreover, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate acquired companies or their management teams into the Company’s operating structure, retain management teams of acquired companies on a long-term basis, or operate acquired companies profitably. Acquisitions may also involve a number of other risks, including adverse short-term effects on the Company’s operating results, dependence on retaining key personnel and customers, and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to ongoing financial covenants under our main credit facility, and if we fail to meet those covenants or otherwise default on our credit facility, our lender may accelerate all unpaid amounts, including interest. At December 25, 2010, the Company had outstanding indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount of $22.4 million. Our credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association (“U.S. Bank”) is secured by substantially all assets of the Company. The Company’s obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by each of its subsidiaries. The Company is required to comply with certain financial covenants pursuant to the U.S. Bank Credit Agreement so long as borrowings from U.S. Bank remain outstanding. Should the Company be in default under any of such covenants, U.S. Bank shall have the right, upon written notice and after the expiration of any applicable period during which such default may be cured, to demand immediate payment of all of the then unpaid principal and accrued but unpaid interest under the Credit Agreement. At December 25, 2010, the Company was in compliance with all covenants of the Credit Agreement. As the Company implements its business strategy, the Company may not be able to remain in compliance with its financial covenants. Any acceleration of the borrowings under the Credit Agreement prior to the applicable maturity dates could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s operating results. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may not be able to successfully implement our strategy to expand our business internationally. The Company plans to expand sales to Canadian customers and is exploring other international market opportunities for its brands. Such expansion may require significant management attention and financial resources and may not produce desired levels of revenue. International business is subject to inherent risks, including longer accounts receivable collection cycles, difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographical areas, difficulties enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights, fluctuations in local economic, market and political conditions, compliance requirements with U.S. and foreign export regulations, potential adverse tax consequences and currency exchange rate fluctuations. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us or any product recalls we have to make. As a manufacturer and marketer of food products, the Company may be subjected to various product liability claims. The product liability and product recall insurance maintained by the Company may not be adequate to cover any loss or exposure for product liability, and such insurance may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Company. Any product liability claim not fully covered by insurance, as well as any adverse publicity from a product liability claim or product recall, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Newly adopted governmental regulations could increase our costs or liabilities or impact the sale of our products. The food industry is highly regulated and subject to change. New or increased government regulation of the food industry, including areas related to production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, marketing, storage and distribution, and labor unions, could adversely impact the Company’s operating results by increasing production costs or restricting methods of operation and distribution. These regulations may address food industry or society factors, such as obesity, nutritional concerns and diet trends. Sales of the Company’s products could be materially and adversely affected if new laws or regulations are passed that require the Company to alter the taste or composition of its products or impose other obligations on the Company. We do not own the patents for the technology we use to manufacture our T.G.I. Friday’s®, BURGER KING TM and Tato Skins® brand products. The Company licenses technology from a third party in connection with the manufacture of its T.G.I. Friday’s®, BURGER KING TM and Tato Skins® brand products and has a royalty-bearing, exclusive right license to use the technology necessary to produce these products in the United States, Canada, and Mexico until such time the parties mutually agree to terminate the agreement. Even though the patents for this technology expired December 26, 2006, in consideration for the use of this technology, the Company is required to make royalty payments to the third party on sales of products manufactured utilizing the technology until such termination date. Since these patents expired, we no longer have exclusive rights to this technology and, as a result, may face additional competition that could adversely affect our revenues. Moreover, competitors of the Company, certain of which may have significantly greater resources than the Company, may utilize different technology in the manufacture of products that are similar to those currently manufactured, or that may in the future be manufactured, by the Company. The entry of any such products into the marketplace could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales of T.G.I. Friday’s®, BURGER KING TM and Tato Skins® brand products, as well as any such future products. 10 Table of Contents The majority of our revenues are derived from a limited number of food brands. The Company derives a substantial portion of its revenue from a limited number of snack food brands. For the year ended December 25, 2010, 65% of the Company’s net revenues were attributable to the T.G.I. Friday’s® brand products, the Boulder CanyonTM Natural Foods brand products and Rader Farms® brand products. A decrease in the popularity of these brands during any year could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Any impact to a licensed brand’s reputation could also lead to an impact on the Company’s other snack food products associated with that brand. Decreased sales from any one of our key food brands without a corresponding increase in sales from other existing or newly introduced products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. We depend on a license agreement for the right to sell our T.G.I. Friday’s® brand. For the year ended December 25, 2010, 29% of the Company’s net revenues were attributable to the T.G.I. Friday’s® brand products, which are manufactured and sold by the Company pursuant to a license agreement by and between the Company and T.G.I. Friday’s Inc. that expires in 2014. Pursuant to the license agreement, the Company is subject to various requirements and conditions (including, without limitation, minimum sales targets). The failure of the Company to comply with certain of such requirements and conditions could result in the early termination of the license agreement by T.G.I. Friday’s Inc. Any termination of the T.G.I. Friday’s license agreement, whether at the expiration of its term or prior thereto, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The loss of one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Costco accounted for 27% of the Company’s 2010 net revenues, with the remainder of the Company’s net revenues being derived from sales to a limited number of additional customers, either grocery chains or regional distributors, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenues for 2010. A decision by any major customer to cease or substantially reduce its purchases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The loss of certain key employees could adversely affect our business. The Company’s success is dependent in large part upon the abilities of its executive officers, including Terry McDaniel, Chief Executive Officer, and Steve Weinberger, Chief Financial Officer. The Company’s business strategy will challenge its executive officers, and the inability of such officers to perform their duties or the inability of the Company to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s operating results. Risks Related to the Snack Business We may not be able to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry. The market for snack foods, such as those sold by us, including potato chips and meat snacks, is large and intensely competitive. Competitive factors in the snack food industry include product quality and taste, brand awareness among consumers, access to supermarket shelf space, price, advertising and promotion, variety of snacks offered, nutritional content, product packaging and package design. The Company competes in that market principally on the basis of product taste and quality. The snack food industry is dominated by large food companies, including Frito-Lay, Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc., Procter and Gamble, General Mills and others which have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company and sell brands that are more widely recognized than are the Company’s products. Numerous other companies that are actual or potential competitors of the Company, many with greater financial and other resources (including more employees and more extensive facilities) than the Company, offer products similar to those of the Company. In addition, many of such competitors offer a wider range of products than that offered by the Company. Local or regional markets often have significant smaller competitors, many of whom offer products similar to those of the Company. With expansion of Company operations into new markets, the Company has and will continue to encounter significant competition from national, regional and local competitors that may be greater than that encountered by the Company in its existing markets. In addition, such competitors may challenge the Company’s position in its existing markets. Unavailability of our necessary supplies, at reasonable prices, could adversely affect our operations. The Company’s manufacturing costs are subject to fluctuations in the prices of potatoes, potato flakes, wheat flour, corn and oil as well as other ingredients of the Company’s products. Potatoes, potato flakes, wheat flour and corn are widely available year- 11 Table of Contents round, and the Company uses a variety of oils in the production of its products. Nonetheless, the Company is dependent on its suppliers to provide the Company with products and ingredients in adequate supply and on a timely basis. The failure of certain suppliers to meet the Company’s performance specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. To the extent that product ingredients become scarce, substantially increase in price, or become unavailable or unavailable on commercially attractive terms, the Company’s operating results could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, the Company may lock in prices for raw materials, such as oils, as it deems appropriate, and such strategies may result in the Company paying prices for raw materials that are above market at the time of purchase. We may incur substantial costs in order to market our snacks. Successful marketing of snack products generally depends upon obtaining adequate retail shelf space for product display, particularly in supermarkets. Frequently, food manufacturers and distributors, such as the Company, incur additional costs in order to obtain additional shelf space. Whether or not the Company incurs such costs in a particular market is dependent upon a number of factors, including demand for the Company’s products, relative availability of shelf space and general competitive conditions. The Company may incur significant shelf space or other promotional costs as a necessary condition of entering into competition or maintaining market share in particular markets or stores. If incurred, such costs may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Our business may be adversely affected by oversupply of snack products at the wholesale and retail levels and seasonal fluctuations. Profitability in the food product industry is subject to oversupply of certain snack products at the wholesale and retail levels, which can result in our products going out of date before they are sold. The snack products industry is also seasonal. Consumers tend to purchase our products at higher levels during the major summer holidays and also at times surrounding the major sporting events throughout the year. Consumers also tend to purchase fresh berries while in season and therefore we see a decline in frozen berry revenue in the summer months. Any of these seasonal effects may result in an oversupply or undersupply of our products. Additionally, we may face seasonal price increases for raw materials. Such seasonal costs could materially and adversely affect our operating results in any given quarter. We may not be able to respond successfully to shifting consumer tastes. Consumer preferences for snack foods are continually changing and are extremely difficult to predict. The Company’s success depends in part on timely responding to current market trends and anticipating changing consumer tastes and dietary habits by developing and licensing new products and entering new markets. The failure to adequately address changing consumer preferences could result in reduced demand for the Company’s products and have a material adverse affect the Company’s operating results. Risks Related to the Rader Farms Business Farming is subject to numerous inherent risks including changes in weather conditions or natural disasters that can have an adverse impact on crop production and materially affect our results of operations. The Company, through its subsidiary Rader Farms, Inc., is subject to the risks that generally relate to the agricultural industry. Adverse changes in weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, droughts, extreme cold or pestilence, may affect the planting, growing and delivery of crops, reduce sales stock, interrupt distribution, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. Revenues are derived from one brand; the loss or impairment of this brand may adversely effect operating results. Rader Farms derives the majority of its revenue from the sales of one brand. In 2010, 36% of the Company’s net revenues were attributable to the berry products segment. A decrease in the popularity of frozen berries during any year could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Unavailability of purchased berries, at reasonable prices, could adversely affect operations. The Company’s manufacturing costs are subject to fluctuations in the prices of certain commodity prices. Berries are not readily available year-round, therefore, the Company uses an individual quick frozen (IQF) technique to freeze the berries harvested for use during the year to meet processing demands. In addition to freezing our own home-grown berries, we also purchase a significant amount of berries from outside suppliers to meet customer demands. The Company is dependent on its suppliers to provide the Company with adequate supply and on a timely basis. The failure of certain suppliers to meet the Company’s performance 12 Table of Contents specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. To the extent that certain types of berries become scarce, substantially increase in price, or become unavailable or unavailable on commercially attractive terms, the Company’s operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us or any product recalls we have to make. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such hazards could result from: tampering by unauthorized third parties; product contamination (such as listeria, e-coli, and salmonella) or spoilage; the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, and other agents; residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases; or improperly formulated products. Product liability and product recall insurance maintained by the Company may not be adequate to cover any loss or exposure for product liability, or such insurance may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Company. Any product liability claim not fully covered by insurance, as well as any adverse publicity from a product liability claim or product recall, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Risks Related to Our Securities The market price of our Common Stock is volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has experienced a high level of volatility. During fiscal 2010, the market price of our Common Stock (based on last reported sale price of the Common Stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market) ranged from a high of $4.45 per share to a low of $2.25 per share. The last reported sales price of the Common Stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market on December 25, 2010 was $4.32 per share. A significant amount of our Common Stock is controlled by a small number of shareholders, and the interests of such shareholders may conflict with those of other shareholders. As of December 25, 2010, Capital Foods, LLC, an affiliate of our Board of Directors member Larry Polhill (“Capital Foods”), beneficially owned 22.9% of the Company’s outstanding shares, and Heartland Advisors, Inc. (“Heartland”) beneficially owned 16.6% of the Company’s outstanding shares. Capital Foods and Heartland are hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Significant Shareholders.” One or more of the Significant Shareholders could potentially adopt or support a plan to undertake a material change in the management or business of the Company. Apart from transfer restrictions arising under applicable provisions of the securities laws, there are no restrictions on the ability of the Significant Shareholders to transfer any or all of their respective shares of Common Stock at any time. One or more of such transfers could have the effect of transferring effective control of the Company, including to one or more parties not currently known to the Company. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue preferred stock, and the rights of holders of Common Stock may be adversely affected by the rights of holders of any such preferred stock. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company. The Company may issue such shares of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company, and preventing holders of Common Stock from realizing a premium on their shares. In addition, under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), the Company is prohibited from engaging in any business combination (as defined in the DGCL) with any interested shareholder (as defined in the DGCL) unless certain conditions are met. This statutory provision could also have an anti-takeover effect. 