ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘‘Risk Factors’’ below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. An investment in our securities is risky. Prior to making a decision about investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the specific risks discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. 18 Table of Contents We do not have any products approved for sale. All of our proposed products are in trials. If our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we might not be able to obtain regulatoryapproval for our products. Our product candidates are all pharmaceutical products. We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates, including in human clinical trials, before we can apply for or obtain regulatory approval to sell our products. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results. We would need to reevaluate any drug that did not test favorably and either alter the drug or dose, modify the trial protocol or abandon the drug development project completely. In such circumstances, we would not be able to apply for or obtain regulatory approval for an extended period of time, if ever. Factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: • slow patient enrollment; • long treatment time required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; • negative or equivocal findings of the data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, for a trial; and • lack of sufficient funds. If we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to sell our products and the value of our company and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. We cannot sell or market our drugs without regulatory approval. If we cannot obtain regulatory approval for our products, the value of our company and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. In the United States, we must obtain approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for each drug that we intend to sell. The current status of our potential products is as follows: • Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) is being evaluated in three clinical trials sponsored by us including a Phase III trial in relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) in combination with Ara-C, a pivotal Phase II trial as a single agent in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML, and a Phase II trial as a single agent in small-cell lung cancer; • The National Cancer Institute is sponsoring clinical trials of Triapine® as a single agent and in combination with standard chemotherapies; and • VNP40541 and hydrazones are being evaluated in preclinical studies. If and when we complete the several phases of clinical testing for each drug candidate, we will submit our test results to the FDA. FDA review may generally take up to two years and approval is not assured. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed outside the United States. A delay in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates will also have a material adverse effect on our business. In the near term, we are heavily dependant on the success of our lead product candidate Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) which is still under development. If Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) is not successful in clinical trials or we do not obtain FDA approval of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), or if FDA delays approval or narrows the indications for which we may market Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), our business will be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that our ability to generate revenues in the foreseeable future will depend on the successful development and commercialization of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M). The commercial success of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) will depend on several factors, including successful completion of our ongoing Phase III and pivotal Phase II clinical trials for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M); receipt of 19 Table of Contents approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities through third party manufacturers; successfully launching commercial sales of the products, either ourselves or through third parties; and acceptance of the products in the medical community and by third party payers, none of which can be assured. If the data from our ongoing Phase III and pivotal Phase II clinical trials for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) are not satisfactory, we may not proceed with the filing for regulatory approval or we may be forced to delay the filing. Even if the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities do grant approval for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), they may narrow the indications for which we are permitted to market it, may pose other restrictions on the use or marketing of the product, or may require us to conduct additional post-marketing trials. A narrowed indication or other re strictions may limit the market potential for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) and any obligation to conduct additional clinical trials would result in increased expenditures and lower revenues. If we are not successful in commercializing our lead product candidate Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business will be materially adversely affected and we may need to curtail or cease operations. On November 13, 2006, we announced that we had accrued 210 patients to the Phase III trial of our lead anticancer agent Cloretazine® (VNP40101M). The trial is evaluating Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in combination with Ara-C for the treatment of relapsed AML and is designed to accrue 420 patients if it continues to full accrual. The planned interim evaluation of safety and efficacy for this trial based on 210 patients by its DSMB is presently anticipated to occur in the second quarter of 2007, although we have limited control over the final timing. Based on the evaluation of the first 210 patients accrued in the Phase III trial, the DSMB will deter mine whether to allow the trial to continue as currently designed, whether the trial design should be modified or whether the trial should be terminated completely. Such a determination would be expected shortly after the data is presented to the DSMB for review. There can be no assurance as to the results of the evaluation of these patients, or the timing of completion of this evaluation or this trial, and there should be no inference that the trial has achieved favorable results to date or that the DSMB will allow the Phase III trial to continue. On January 25, 2007, we announced that we had recorded at least nine responses in our pivotal Phase II trial of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. The trial is designed to continue to a total accrual of 85 patients if there have been at least nine responses in the first 42 patients. Accordingly, we are proceeding to the second stage of accrual. There can be no assurance as to the results of this trial or the timing of completion of this trial, and there should be no inference that the trial has achieved favorable results to date. As with all drug development, we would need to reevaluate Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) if it does not test favorably in either of these trials. In such event, we would either alter the drug or dose as used in the trial, modify the clinical trial protocol or abandon the drug development project. In any such event, our business, operations and prospects would be materially, adversely affected, and our ability to apply for or obtain regulatory approval might be delayed, or we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval at all. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred losses since inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $175.2 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research, development and preclinical and clinical trials of product candidates. We expect to continue to operate at a net loss for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct drug trials and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our future profitability depends on our receiving regulatory approval of our product candidates and our abili ty to successfully manufacture and market approved drugs. The extent of our future losses and the timing of our profitability are highly uncertain. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue or complete our product development. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund operations and complete our product development. As of December 31, 2006, we had $30.9 million in cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations and continue our product development. In February 2007, we sold $60 million principal amount of our convertible senior notes, together with common stock purchase warrants, and received net proceeds of approximately $55.4 million. We will not have an approved and marketable product for the foreseeable future. Under our current operating plan, if we do not have an approved product for sale which is generating significant revenues, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to have sufficient capital to fund our o perations beyond mid-2009. We may not get funding when we need it or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate our research and development activities, clinical studies or future operations. We might have to license our technology to others. This could result in sharing revenues which we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: • the progress, timing and scope of our product development programs; • the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities; • the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships; and • our partners’ commitment of time and resource to the development of our products. We are significantly leveraged. In February 2007, we issued $60 million principal amount of our convertible senior notes. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations on the notes will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If the testing or use of our potential products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products. These risks are particularly inherent in human trials of our proposed products. Unacceptable side effects may be discovered during preclinical and clinical testing of one or more of our potential products. Side effects and other liability risks could give rise to viable product liability claims against us. While we have obtained insurance coverage for patients enrolled in clinical trials, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms; 21 Table of Contents insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, and we may need additional insurance coverage for expanded clinical trials and commercial activity. As a result, product liability claims, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the side effects are determined to be unacceptable, we will not be able to commercialize our products. If we are found to be infringing on patents or trade secrets owned by others, we may be forced to cease or alter our drug development efforts, obtain a license to continue the development or sale of our products, and/or pay damages. Our manufacturing processes and potential products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others, or the trade secrets of those persons and entities. As the drug development industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our processes and potential products may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or trade secrets of others. These other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or process. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to c ontinue to conduct clinical tests, manufacture or market the affected product or use the affected process. Required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and the results of litigation are uncertain. If we become involved in litigation or other proceedings, it could consume a substantial portion of our financial resources and the efforts of our personnel. We rely on confidentiality agreements to protect our trade secrets. If these agreements are breached by our employees or other parties, our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. We rely on trade secrets that we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and other parties. If these agreements are breached, our competitors may obtain and use our trade secrets to gain a competitive advantage over us. We may not have any remedies against our competitors and any remedies that may be available to us may not be adequate to protect our business or compensate us for the damaging disclosure. In addition, we may have to expend resources to protect our interests from possible infringement by others. A substantial portion of our technology is subject to limited retained rights of our licensors, and we may not be able to prevent the grant of similar rights to third parties. A substantial portion of our technology is licensed from academic institutions which technology license agreements are subject to the federal Bayh Dole Act, pursuant to which the federal government has certain limited rights to use the technology and to even require us to grant a license to one or more third parties if we are not fully developing the technology. In certain cases we also have the right to practice improvements on the licensed technology to the extent they are encompassed by the licensed patents and within our field of use. Our licensors may currently own and may in the future obtain additional patents and patent applications that are helpful for the development, manufacture and commercial sale of our anticipated products. We may be unable to agree with one or more academic institutions from which we have obtained licenses that certain intellectual property developed by researchers at these academic institutions is covered by our existing licenses. In the event that the new intellectual property is not covered by our existing licenses, we would be required to negotiate a ne w license agreement. We may not be able to reach agreement with current or future licensors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or the terms may not permit us to sell our products at a profit after payment of royalties, which could harm our business. Our licenses generally also may be terminated by the licensor if we default in performance of our obligations. If any of our licenses are terminated, we may lose certain rights to manufacture, sell, market and distribute products which would significantly reduce our actual and potential revenues and have a material and negative impact on our operations. 22 Table of Contents Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents or trade secrets, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. Furthermore, the degree of future protection o f our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Moreover, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain for products that are currently in the early stages of development because we cannot predict which of these products will ultimately reach the commercial market or whether the commercial versions of these products will incorporate proprietary technologies. Our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable technologies, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. As a result, our owned and licensed patents may not be valid and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents and to maintain trade secret protection for our technology. The extent to which we are unable to do so could materially harm our business. We or our licensors have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain products. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with adequate protection from competition. Furthermore, it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, if we have a preferred competitive position because of such patents, any preferred position held by us would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, we could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Litigation may also absorb significant management time. 23 Table of Contents Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to and will continue to attempt to protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Certain of our patent rights are licensed to us by third parties. If we fail to comply with the terms of these license agreements, our rights to those patents may be terminated, and we will be unable to conduct our business. If we fail to recruit and retain key personnel, our research and development programs may be delayed. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly, Alan Kessman, our chief executive officer and director; Howard B. Johnson, our president and chief financial officer; Ann Lee Cahill, our vice president, clinical development; Ivan King, Ph.D., our vice president, research and development; Meghan Fitzgerald, our vice president and chief business officer; and Aileen Ryan, our vice president, regulatory affairs. There is intense competition in the drug development industry for qualified scientific and technical personnel. Since our business is very technical and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and reta in the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business, particularly in light of our need to raise substantial additional financing in order to continue our operations beyond mid-2009. We have no key man insurance policies on any of the officers listed above and we only have an employment agreement with Mr. Kessman. If we lose the services of our management and scientific personnel or fail to recruit other scientific and technical personnel, our research and product development programs will be significantly and detrimentally affected. We face intense competition in the market for anticancer products, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. Numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have publicly announced their intention to develop drugs for the treatment of cancer including, in some instances, the development of agents which treat AML and/or are alkylating agents similar to our compound Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) and agents which target ribonucleotide reductase similar to our compound Triapine®. These companies include, but are not limited to Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bioenvision, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Chiron Corporation, Eli Lilly and Co., Genentech Inc., Genzyme Corporation, ImClone Systems Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Lorus Therapeutics Inc., MGI Pharma, Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Pharmion Corp., Schering-Plough Corporation, Wyeth, and Xanthus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. These and other large pharmaceutical companies have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do and have substantially greater experience in undertaking preclinical and clinical testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In addition, our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly than us and in developing and commercializing products that are safer and more effective than those that we propose to develop. The existence of these products, other products or treatments of which we are not aware or products or treatments that may be developed in the future may adversely affect the marketability of our products by rendering them less competitive or obsolete. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the de velopment of products, technologies and processes, we may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. 24 Table of Contents If our corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others do not conduct activities in accordance with our arrangements, our research and development efforts may be delayed. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products entails entering into various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others. We currently depend on the following third parties: • The National Cancer Institute (NCI) with respect to clinical development of Triapine® in clinical trials; • Yale University (Yale) for research and for technologies that are licensed by them to us; • Beijing Pason Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the development of Triapine® in the People’s Republic of China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan; • Healthcare facilities in the United States and other countries to perform human clinical trials of our products; • Clinical research organizations in the United States and other countries to monitor and collect data related to human clinical trials; and • Contract manufacturers to produce our products for use in preclinical, clinical and potential commercial activities. If the third parties do not conduct activities in accordance with the arrangements we have with them, or if these arrangements are terminated, our product development efforts may be delayed. We may also rely on other collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals and to manufacture and market our products. The amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities by these other parties may not be within our control. If Yale does not conduct research relating to products we would like to pursue, we may never realize any benefits from our funding provided to Yale. Through December 31, 2006, we have paid approximately $10.5 million to Yale for research funding. We have agreed to pay an additional $50,000 to support the research activities of one of our directors, an affiliate of Yale, through March 31, 2007. We may continue to support certain research projects at Yale. We generally do not have the right to control the research that Yale is conducting with our funding, and our funds may not be used to conduct research relating to products that we would like to pursue. Additionally, if the research being conducted by Yale results in technologies that Yale has not already licensed or agreed to license to us, we may need to negotiate additional license agreements or we may be unable to util ize those technologies. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future drug products. We have no experience with marketing, sales and distribution of drug products and have only recently established pre-commercial capability in those areas. If we are unable to establish capabilities to sell, market and distribute our products, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully sell our future drug products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates. If these third-party manufacturers fail to manufacture product candidates of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at acceptable costs, development and commercialization of our products could be delayed. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we have no experience in the commercial manufacturing of drugs or in validating drug manufacturing processes. We have contracted with third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates for regulatory approvals clinical trials. We have 25 Table of Contents limited supplies of our product candidates for clinical trials. If our supplies are damaged or destroyed, either during storage or shipping or otherwise, our clinical trials may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute commercial quantities of our product candidates. We will also rely on our third-party manufacturing partners to work with us to complete the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control, or CMC, section of any nondisclosure agreements or any marketing approval application we may file. Contract manufacturers are obliged to operate in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs or to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical trials and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. Changing contract manufacturers may be difficult, and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers requires validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated cGMPs. Such validation may be costly and time-consuming. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly, if at all. Either of these factors could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or cause a decline in potential product revenues. Drug manufacturers are subject to on-going, periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third-party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant market approval of drugs, delays, suspension of clinical trials, withdrawal of approvals, seizure s, detentions or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities by third-party manufacturers for preclinical and clinical trials. We have not validated the manufacturing process for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) to date. In order to obtain marketing approval for any of these product candidates, we will need to enter into and maintain long-term supply agreements with our existing or new third-party manufacturers, such as our agreement with Ben Venue Laboratories, and demonstrate that we can manufacture sufficient quantities under a validated manufacturing process for commercial sale. Our third-party manufacturers may terminate our agreements, may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity, validate our manufacturing process, or apply at commercial scale the current manufacturing process for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. This may require seeking out additional manufacturing partners who may have different equipment requiring additional validation studies, which the relevant government regulator must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully validate or increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure of our third-party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overr uns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. If environmental laws become stricter in the future, we may face large capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to expend to comply with comprehensive federal, state and local environmental laws and 26 Table of Contents regulations. We must comply with environmental laws that govern, among other things, all emissions, waste water discharge and solid and hazardous waste disposal, and the remediation of contamination associated with generation, handling and disposal activities. To date, we have not incurred significant costs and are not aware of any significant liabilities associated with our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and may face large capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws. We have limited capital and are uncertain whether we will be able to pay for significantly large capital expenditures. Also, future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. All of our operations are performed under strict environmental and health safety controls consistent with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to control all health and safety problems. If we cannot control those problems, we may be held liable and may be required to pay the costs of remediation. These liabilities and costs could be material. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and may also dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our company. Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities, and we may seek acquisitions to do so. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our common stock, which could dilute current stockholder’s ownership interest in our company. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM. Among other things, delisting from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM would cause us to become ineligible to use Form S-3 for the registration of the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders. If the price of our common stock declines below $1.00 per share, we may fail to meet Nasdaq’s maintenance criteria, which may result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM. In the event of such delisting, trading, if any, in our common stock may then continue to be conducted in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board and the ‘‘pink sheets.’’ As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to a Rule promulgated by the SEC that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such 27 Table of Contents Rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a materially adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM will also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. We are a party to several registration rights agreements which require us to maintain the effectiveness of registration statements relating to the resale of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and upon conversion of our outstanding notes by holders of such warrants and notes. If we are inel igible to use Form S-3, we will need to file new registration statements on some other permitted Form and maintenance of the effectiveness of such registration statements will become extremely difficult. Under the applicable registration rights agreements, we could become subject to certain liquidated damages upon and during the continuance of any such failure. We would also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws to sell equity if we are delisted. The terms of our outstanding notes and warrants, as well as any additional funding we raise in the future could cause extreme dilution to our stockholders. Further, the large number of our shares that may be held in the market may depress the market price of our stock. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes, our payment of interest or make-whole premiums on the notes under certain circumstances with shares of common stock, and the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the sale of the notes, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2006, we also had outstanding warrants to purchase 9,198,971 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.20 to $3.25 per share. All such shares have been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the SEC and will be freely tradable when issued upon exercise of the warrants. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, there were 4,232,017 shares of common stock issuabl e upon exercise of options granted by us. We may also grant awards under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan to purchase up to an additional 2,425,372 shares of common stock. Further, to the extent we determine that we need additional financing and we encounter additional opportunities to raise cash, we would likely sell additional equity or debt securities. Depending on our stock price and market conditions at the time of any capital raise, and the amount of capital we need, such debt or equity securities may be sold at relatively low prices, including prices which are below the market price of our common stock, and may have substantial rights to control us. Stockholders would experience extreme dilution as well as subordination of their rights. Other than as set forth in the indenture governing the notes, we do not have any contractual restrictions on our ability to incur debt. Any indebtedness could contain covenants that restrict our operations. Any sales in the public market of the common stock paid as interest or as a make-whole premium, issuable upon conversion of the notes or exercise of warrants, the exercise of outstanding options or the issuance of equity pursuant to our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could also affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to our stockholders may allow our Board of Directors and management to deter a potential acquisition in which the Board of Directors and management are to be replaced. We have in place a stockholder rights plan, or ‘‘poison pill,’’ which enables our Board of Directors to issue rights to purchase common stock when someone acquires 20% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of the plan, anyone wishing to take over the 28 Table of Contents company would most likely be forced to negotiate a transaction with our Board of Directors and management in order not to trigger the pill. The need to negotiate with the Board of Directors or management could frustrate a proposed takeover particularly where the Board of Directors and management wish to remain entrenched. This would prevent our stockholders from participating in a takeover or tender offer, which might be of substantial value to them. Provisions of our outstanding convertible senior notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third-party. Certain provisions of our outstanding convertible senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire us, including a provision requiring an acquirer to assume all of our obligations under the notes and the indenture. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change under the indenture relating to the notes, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes. After giving effect to the sale of our convertible senior notes and warrants in February 2007 and the reservation of shares for potential issuance upon conversion or exercise, we have limited shares of common stock authorized and available for issuance. As of March 1, 2007, we had 150,000,000 authorized shares of common stock under our certificate of incorporation, as amended, of which 72,084,540 were issued and outstanding. An aggregate of additional 23,257,328 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options, as well as for potential issuance under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and our 2000 Vion Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, our 7.75% convertible notes are convertible into 31,249,980 shares of common stock. After reserving shares for potential issuance upon conversion of our convertible senior notes, the exercise of the warrants sold in connection with the sale of the notes, the potential payment of interest on the notes with shares of common stock and make-whole premiums on the notes with shares of common stock, we have limited shares of common stock authorized and available for other purposes, including potential acquisitions, potential issuances in connection with a strategic relationship, and potential issuance under our rights plan. Accordingly, unless and until we can amend out certificate of incorporation to authorize more shares of common stock, which would require stockholder approval, we may not be able to take advantage of corporate opportunities which might come to our attention which would require the issuance of common stock. In addition, in any situation where our shareholder rights may become exercisable, we will not be able to issue more than a de minimus number of shares upon the exercise of the shareholder rights, thereby frustrating the purpose of the rights plan. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 