Item 1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2 Properties 31 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 31 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 34 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A(T) Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B Other Information 68 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 68 Item 11 Executive Compensation 69 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 82 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 82 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 83 SIGNATURES EX-10.44: AMENDMENT 1 TO CLINICAL TRIALS AGREEMENT EX-10.45: AMENDMENT 2 TO CLINICAL TRIALS AGREEMENT EX-21.1: SUBSIDIARIES EX-23.1: CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION Table of Contents When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, “Vion,” “Company,” “the registrant,” “we,” “us,” “our” and similar terms refer to Vion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We own or have rights to various copyrights, trademarks and trade names used in our business including the following: Onrigintm, Cloretazine®, Triapine®, MELASYN® and TAPET®. This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including without limitation statements under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and “Item 1. Business,” regarding our financial position, business strategy, and plans and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “potential,” “seek,” “project,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under “Item 1A — Risk Factors,” as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. For example, additional risks presently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely to occur could also impair our operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of those additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. The information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is believed to be current as of the date of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business We are a development-stage pharmaceutical company that develops therapeutics for the treatment of cancer. Our research and product development activities to date have consisted primarily of conducting preclinical trials of product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for clinical trials, conducting clinical trials, preparing to file for regulatory approval of our lead product candidate, Onrigintm (laromustine) Injection, conducting pre-commercialization activities, negotiating and obtaining collaborative agreements, and obtaining financing in support of these activities. Since inception, we have generated minimal revenues and have incurred substantial operating losses from our activities. We currently have no material source of revenue and we expect to incur substantial operating losses for the next several years due to expenses associated with our activities. We will have to raise additional capital to operate the Company after the first quarter of 2010. We have two small molecule anticancer agents in clinical development. Clinical development of a product candidate generally involves a three-phase process. In Phase I, clinical trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the tolerated drug dose, early safety profile, proper scheduling and the pattern of drug distribution, absorption and metabolism. In Phase II, clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine efficacy, dose-response relationships and expanded evidence of safety. In Phase III, large-scale, multi-center, controlled clinical trials are conducted in order to: (i) provide enough data for statistical proof of safety and efficacy; (ii) compare the experimental therapy to existing therapies; (iii) uncover unexpected safety problems, such as previously unobserved side-effects; and (iv) generate product labeling. Most of our resources are focused on the development of Onrigintm for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In February 2009, we filed a New Drug Application (NDA) for Onrigintm with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) based on our pivotal Phase II trial of the drug as a single agent in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML, supplemented by data from a previous Phase II trial of Onrigintm in elderly AML. In October 2005, Onrigintm was designated a fast track product for the treatment of patients over 60 years of age with poor-risk AML and accordingly we have requested priority review of our NDA filing. Within several months after the NDA filing date, the FDA will determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Although preliminary data from the pivotal trial indicated that we met the criteria for a successful trial based on the primary endpoint, the overall response rate, there can be no assurance that the NDA will be: (i) accepted for filing or (ii) reviewed and/or approved on a priority or timely basis by the FDA, if at all. In May 2007, our Phase III trial of Onrigintm in combination with Ara-C (also known as cytarabine) in relapsed AML was put on clinical hold by the FDA after accrual of 268 patients. This decision was based on a planned interim analysis of clinical data by the trial’s data safety monitoring board (DSMB) that resulted in a recommendation that enrollment and further treatment of patients on study be suspended. The DSMB’s recommendation was based on their evaluation that any advantage in the overall response rate (the trial’s primary endpoint) was being compromised by the mortality observed on the study. In January 2008, we announced that the FDA had lifted the clinical hold on this trial, and that we had reached initial agreement with the FDA on modifications to our original Phase III study protocol resulting in the requirement to conduct a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML if we pursue regulatory approval in this indication. The original Phase III trial is now closed. There can be no assurance that we will start a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML at any time in the future. We have limited resources to allocate to additional clinical trials of Onrigintm. Onrigintm is being evaluated in four clinical trials at this time: (i) a continuation of our pivotal Phase II trial to collect certain electrocardiogram data; and (ii) three trials sponsored by clinical investigators. We have also entered into an agreement to conduct one additional investigator-sponsored trial of Onrigintm in AML. We have limited resources to apply to our second product candidate, Triapine®. Triapine® is under evaluation in four clinical trials sponsored by the National Cancer Institute’s (NCI) Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program. We provide Triapine® drug products to support these trials. 2 Table of Contents We have two additional anticancer technologies that are in the preclinical development stage: (i) a small molecule that targets hypoxic or low-oxygen areas of tumors (VNP40541) and (ii) a drug delivery technology (TAPET®). We are not developing these technologies with our own resources at this time, and are seeking development partners for these product candidates. ‘Preclinical development’ or ‘preclinical studies’ indicate that the product candidates selected for development are being evaluated for potency, specificity, manufacturability and pharmacologic activity in vitro, or cell culture, and in vivo, or animal models. Our product development programs are based primarily on technologies that we license from Yale University (Yale) and other cancer research centers or that we have developed ourselves. We have largely engaged in product development with respect to anticancer therapeutics through in-house preclinical and clinical development and through collaboration with academic, research and governmental institutions. As our product candidates advance through trials, depending on financial and pharmaceutical market conditions and the resources required for development, we will determine the best method and/or partnership to develop, and eventually market, our products. We were incorporated in March 1992 as a Delaware corporation and began operations on May 1, 1994. We have no material source of revenues. We have incurred operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $239.0 million. We expect to incur substantial operating losses for the next several years due to expenses associated with product development, clinical testing, regulatory activities, manufacturing development, scale-up and commercial-scale manufacturing, pre-commercialization activities, developing a sales and marketing force, and other infrastructure support costs. We will need to obtain additional financing to cover these costs. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we spent $17.5 million, $24.2 million and $21.5 million, respectively, on company-sponsored research and development activities. Status of Common Stock On February 20, 2008, we effected a one-for-ten reverse split of all outstanding shares of our common stock and a corresponding decrease in the number of shares of authorized common stock. As of that date, each ten of our shares were automatically combined, converted and exchanged into one share of our common stock. All share amounts, per share amounts and common stock prices included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are provided on a post-reverse stock split basis. On August 15, 2008, we announced that we had been delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market®. Our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board® under the symbol “VION.” Overview of Cancer and Treatment Methods According to the American Cancer Society (ACS), cancer is the second most common cause of death in the United States, exceeded only by heart disease. The ACS estimated that 1,437,180 new cancer cases would be diagnosed and about 565,650 cancer deaths would occur in the United States in 2008. Cancer is a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell division and growth resulting in the development of a mass of cells or tumor, as well as the invasion and spreading of these cells to other organs of the body (metastasis). Cancerous tumors can arise in any tissue or organ within the human body and generally cause clinical problems to the patient when the tumor affects the function of that organ or when the tumor spreads to other organs. Cancers which arise in the bone marrow (e.g. acute and chronic leukemias and multiple myeloma) or the lymph nodes (Hodgkin’s disease and lymphomas) spread through the bone marrow and lymphatic systems, affecting the growth of normal blood and lymphatic cells. Cancer is believed to occur as a result of a number of factors, such as genetic predisposition, chemical agents, viruses and radiation. These factors result in genetic changes affecting the ability of cells to regulate their growth and differentiation. The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and anticancer drugs (chemotherapy). A cancer patient often receives treatment with a combination of methods. Surgery and radiation therapy are particularly effective in patients where the disease is localized. The most common method of treating patients with cancer that has spread beyond the primary site is to administer systemic chemotherapy. Chemotherapy 3 Table of Contents seeks to damage and kill cancer cells or to interfere with the molecular and cellular processes that control the development, growth and survival of malignant tumor cells. In many cases, chemotherapy consists of the administration of several different drugs in combination. Chemotherapy can cause a number of side effects in patients, including weakness, low blood count, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, and damage to various organs that can result in loss of normal body functions. The effectiveness of current cancer treatments with respect to any particular patient varies greatly, depending upon the cancer diagnosis and the tolerance of the individual patient to treatment. Therefore, a significant need exists for new agents that can be used alone or in combination with existing drugs and treatment approaches and that will result in greater efficacy with less toxicity (or a more favorable benefit to risk profile) than current therapeutic options. Products for the Treatment of Cancer in Clinical Development The discussion below sets forth the development status of our product candidates in clinical development (except as otherwise specifically noted below) as of March 1, 2009. Onrigintm Onrigintm is a novel alkylating (DNA-damaging) agent. Alkylating agents directly damage DNA to prevent cancer cells from reproducing, and work in all phases of the cell cycle, affecting both dividing and non-dividing cancer cells. Alkylating agents are among the most widely used class of anticancer drugs, displaying activity across a range of both hematologic and solid tumors, including acute and chronic leukemias, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease, multiple myeloma, and lung, breast, ovarian, brain, and certain other cancers. There are a number of approved alkylating agents used in the treatment of cancer, including busulfan, cisplatin, carboplatin, chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, dacarbazine, mechlorethamine, melphalan, and temozolomide. Preclinical data on Onrigintm showed broad anti-tumor activity in in vivo models. It was curative in certain preclinical leukemia models, including mice bearing certain derivatives of a leukemia cell line that was resistant to standard alkylating agents. Onrigintm was also active against solid tumor models, including lung, colon and brain cancer, and melanoma. Onrigintm was also not affected by mechanisms for multiple drug resistance which can limit the effectiveness of treatment. Onrigintm has been shown in preclinical studies to be capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier. The blood-brain barrier has been a common obstacle in achieving active concentrations of many anticancer drugs within the brain. 4 Table of Contents Below is a table summarizing all Onrigintm clinical trials conducted through, or recruiting patients, as of March 1, 2009: Commencement Trial Indication Sponsor Date Status Phase III trial in combination with remission-induction therapy AML and MDS Investigator December 2008 Ongoing Phase III trial in combination with Ara-C AML, relapsed Vion March 2005 Closed Phase II single agent trial AML, elderly de novo poor-risk Vion May 2006 NDA submitted February 2009; Ongoing Phase II single agent trial Small cell lung cancer Vion September 2005 Closed Phase II single agent trial Brain tumors, adult Investigator June 2004 Completed Phase II single agent trial AML and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes, elderly; AML, relapsed Vion March 2004 Completed Phase I/II trial in combination with cytarabine AML, elderly Investigator May 2008 Ongoing Phase I/II trial in combination with temozolomide Brain tumors, adult Investigator September 2007 Ongoing Phase I/II single agent trial Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Vion July 2005 Closed Phase I trial in combination with stem cell transplantation Hematologic Malignancies Investigator December 2007 Closed Phase I trial Brain tumors, pediatric Investigator April 2005 Completed Phase I trial in combination with temozolomide Hematologic malignancies Vion October 2004 Completed Phase I single agent trial in combination with Ara-C Hematologic malignancies Vion July 2003 Completed Phase I single agent trial Solid tumors Vion February 2003 Completed Phase I single agent trial Hematologic malignancies Vion August 2002 Completed Phase I single agent trial Solid tumors Vion June 2001 Completed We would reevaluate Onrigintm if the data from any of our clinical trials raised issues relative to its safety and efficacy. In such event, we would alter the drug or dose as used in the trial, modify the clinical trial protocol, commence additional trials, or abandon the drug development project. In any such event, our business, operations and prospects would be materially adversely affected, and our ability to apply for or obtain regulatory approval might be delayed, or we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval at all. In March 2004, we received fast track designation from the FDA for Onrigintm in relapsed or refractory AML. In October 2005, we received fast track designation for Onrigintm in elderly poor-risk AML. The FDA’s fast track programs are designed to facilitate the development of new drugs that are intended to treat serious or life-threatening conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. In October 2004, we received orphan drug designation from the FDA for Onrigintm in AML in the United States. Orphan drug designation may be granted to products that treat rare diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage or shorten the duration of the FDA review and approval process. The designation may provide eligibility for: (i) a seven-year period of market exclusivity for the indication of AML; (ii) potential tax credits for research; (iii) grant funding for research and development; (iv) reduced filing fees for marketing applications; and (v) assistance with the review of clinical trial protocols. 5 Table of Contents In January 2006, we received orphan drug designation from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Onrigintm in AML in the European Union. Orphan drug status is granted by the European Commission to promote development of drugs to treat rare diseases or conditions. Orphan drug designation in Europe does not convey any advantage or shorten the duration of the EMEA review and approval process. Orphan drug designation in Europe may entitle Onrigintm to: (i) a ten-year period of market exclusivity for the indication of AML; (ii) protocol assistance from the EMEA to optimize drug development in preparing a dossier that will meet regulatory requirements; (iii) reduced fees associated with applying for market approval; and (iv) access to European Union research funding. Onrigintm in Hematologic Malignancies Most of our resources are focused on the development of Onrigintm for the treatment of AML. AML is a cancer characterized by the rapid proliferation of abnormal white blood cells that accumulate in the bone marrow and interfere with the production of normal blood cells. The condition is the most common acute leukemia affecting adults. The American Cancer Society estimates that 13,290 new cases of AML were diagnosed in the U.S. in 2008. AML is primarily a disease of the elderly, with a median age at onset of 67 years. Compared to younger patients, older AML patients have a lower rate of response to currently available induction chemotherapy and shorter overall survival due, in part, to unfavorable prognostic factors such as a higher incidence of adverse cytogenetics and frequent co-morbidities. In addition, patients with risk factors such as advanced age and poor performance status tolerate current induction treatments poorly. A 2005 study by Lang et al, based on data from the National Cancer Institute’s Survey of Epidemiological and End Results (SEER) database, indicated that palliative care is given to the majority of elderly patients with AML in the U.S., providing additional evidence that new treatment options are needed for this population. In February 2009, we submitted an NDA with the FDA based on a pivotal Phase II trial of Onrigintm in previously untreated elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. Elderly de novo poor-risk AML patients are those elderly patients with poor-risk AML that has not evolved from a prior myelodysplastic syndrome or from prior treatment with chemotherapy. Data from the pivotal trial is supplemented with data from a previous Phase II trial of Onrigintm in elderly AML. In October 2005, Onrigintm was designated a fast track product for the treatment of patients over 60 years of age with poor-risk AML and accordingly we have requested priority review of our NDA submission. Within several months of the NDA submission date, the FDA will determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Although the preliminary data from this trial indicate that we met the criteria for a successful trial based on the primary endpoint, the overall response rate, there can be no assurance that the NDA will be: (i) accepted for filing or (ii) reviewed and/or approved on a priority or timely basis by the FDA, if it all. Our Phase III trial of Onrigintm in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML was initiated in March 2005 and accrued 268 patients. In May 2007, we announced that we would suspend enrollment and patient treatment to this trial pending a detailed review of all of the data from the trial. This decision was based on a planned interim analysis of clinical data from the first 210 treated patients by the trial’s DSMB that resulted in a recommendation that enrollment and further treatment of patients on study be suspended. The DSMB’s recommendation was based on their evaluation that any advantage in the primary endpoint, the overall response rate, was being compromised by the mortality observed on the study. In May 2007, the FDA placed the trial on clinical hold. We subsequently performed a comprehensive safety and efficacy analysis with our personnel and external and independent medical consultants. In November 2007, we announced that discussions with the DSMB for the trial regarding the findings of the medical and safety review had been completed and the next step of the process was to present the findings and recommendations to the regulatory authorities. In January 2008, we announced that the FDA had lifted the clinical hold on this trial, and that we had reached initial agreement with the FDA on modifications to our original Phase III study protocol resulting in the requirement to conduct a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML, if we pursue regulatory approval in this indication. The original Phase III trial is now closed. In June 2008, we presented data from this trial at the Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Among other changes, any new trial may 6 Table of Contents include a lowered dose of Onrigintm in the experimental arm of the trial, and prophylactic therapy with antibiotics, anti-fungals and growth factors for all patients. There can be no assurance that we will start a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML at any time in the future. There are additional clinical trials of Onrigintm in hematologic malignancies underway at this time. An investigator-sponsored Phase III trial in combination with remission-induction therapy for previously untreated patients with AML and high-risk myelodysplasia syndrome was initiated in December 2008. An investigator-sponsored Phase I/II trial in combination with cytarabine for elderly patients with previously untreated AML was initiated in May 2008. We have entered into an agreement to conduct one additional investigator-sponsored trial of Onrigintm in AML: a multi-center Phase I/II trial of Onrigintm with remission-induction therapy in patients aged 18-60 with previously untreated AML and a poor prognosis based on their cytogenetic profile. This trial is expected to enroll its first patient in 2009. Onrigintm in Solid Tumors Although our primary focus has been to develop Onrigintm for the treatment of AML, we have also conducted clinical trials in solid tumors, and have provided product and financial support for three investigator-sponsored clinical trials of Onrigintm in pediatric and adult brain tumors. In January 2008, our Phase II trial of Onrigintm as a single agent in small cell lung cancer was closed to patient enrollment due to a reallocation of resources. The trial had accrued 67 out of a planned total of 87 patients. Final data from this trial has not yet been presented at a clinical conference or published. There is one trial of Onrigintm in a solid tumor underway at this time. An investigator-sponsored Phase I/II trial of Onrigintm in combination with temozolomide in adult brain tumors was initiated in September 2007. Triapine® Triapine® is a small molecule that in preclinical models inhibits the enzyme ribonucleotide reductase and therefore prevents the replication of tumor cells by blocking a critical step in DNA synthesis. Ribonucleotide reductase inhibition is believed to arrest the growth of, or kill, cancer cell lines, by blocking a critical step in DNA synthesis in cancer cells. Inhibition of this enzyme has also been shown in vitro and in vivo to enhance the anti-tumor activity of several standard anticancer agents. Accordingly, we believe Triapine® has potential to be used as a single agent and in combination with anticancer drugs to prevent damaged anticancer cells from regenerating. We have evaluated an intravenous formulation of Triapine® in five single agent Phase I trials, three single agent Phase II trials, four Phase I combination trials, and two Phase II combination trials. All our other trials of Triapine® are closed to accrual or completed. Clinical trials of Triapine® are being sponsored by the NCI’s Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program under a clinical trials agreement with the NCI’s Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis for the clinical development of Triapine®. We provide the product used in these trials. There are currently three trials open to recruiting new patients sponsored by the NCI to evaluate an intravenous formulation of Triapine®: (i) a trial of Triapine® in combination with gemcitabine; (ii) a trial of Triapine® in combination with radiation; and (iii) a trial of Triapine® in combination with fludarabine. An additional thirteen trials are closed to accrual or completed. Clinical testing of new single agent administration schedules may be possible with the oral form of Triapine®, which to date has been studied in a small number of patients to determine its absorption in the bloodstream following a single dose. A Phase I trial sponsored by the NCI of an oral formulation of Triapine® is ongoing. In October 2003, we entered into a license with Beijing Pason Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Pason) whereby we granted Pason the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and market Triapine® in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao. To date, Pason has not conducted clinical trials of Triapine®. See “— License and Research Agreements,” below. 7 Table of Contents Other Products and Product Candidates for Conditions Other than Cancer MELASYN® Melanin is a pigment formed by cells in the skin that gives skin its color and protects it from sun damage by absorbing ultraviolet rays. MELASYN® is a patented, water-soluble, synthetic version of melanin, making it a potentially useful ingredient for formulation of skin care products and cosmetics. Our MELASYN® patent and technology are licensed from Yale. We have one non-exclusive sublicense for MELASYN® with a sublicensee. See “— License and Research Agreements,” below. Novel Nucleoside Analogs We have licensed patents and patent applications related to a nucleoside analog, or synthetic molecule, known as elvucitabine (ß-L-Fd4C) from Yale. In February 2000, we entered into a sublicense agreement for elvucitabine with a sublicensee. Under the terms of the sublicense agreement, the sublicense has funded the development of elvucitabine which is currently in Phase II clinical trials as an antiviral drug for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). See “— License and Research Agreements,” below. License and Research Agreements Agreements with Yale University We license various compounds from Yale, including Onrigintm and Triapine®, which were developed in the laboratory of Dr. Sartorelli, one of our directors, through research funded in part by us. The license agreements with Yale, which are described below, grant us exclusive licenses to make, use, sell and practice the inventions covered by various patents and patent applications relating to our primary product candidates as described below. Each license agreement requires us to pay royalties and, in some cases, milestone payments to Yale. Yale has retained the right to make, use and practice the inventions for non-commercial purposes. Under the license agreements we are required to exercise due diligence in commercializing the licensed technologies. The licenses may be terminated by Yale in the event that we fail to make a payment when due, we commit a material breach of the license, we become insolvent or file a petition in bankruptcy, or we fail to exercise due diligence in commercializing the licensed products, subject to certain cure periods. In the event that the license agreement dated August 1994, described below, is terminated for breach, all rights under licenses previously granted terminate. Accordingly, a default as to one product could affect our rights in other products. We may terminate the licenses in the event of Yale’s material breach of the licenses if such breach remains uncured for 30 days. Under the license agreements, we are also required to defend and indemnify Yale for any damages arising out of the use or sale of the licensed products by us or our sublicensees. Subsequent to entering into a license agreement with Yale in August 1994, described below, we have paid approximately $10.8 million through December 31, 2008 to fund research activities at Yale. For risks associated with research funding provided to Yale, see “— If Yale does not conduct research relating to products we would like to pursue, we may never realize any benefits from our funding provided to Yale” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” License Agreement with Yale — September 1990 Under this agreement, we have an exclusive license to a U.S. patent related to a synthetic form of melanin named MELASYN®. Under the terms of the amended license agreement, we pay a license fee to Yale based on a percentage of net sales and sublicensing revenues. The term of the license is dictated by the expiration of any patents relating to any invention or, with respect to non-patented inventions or research, 24 years from 1990 (i.e. through 2014). We have a non-exclusive sublicense agreement for MELASYN® with a sublicensee. Under the terms of the sublicense agreement, we receive reimbursement for certain costs and, if products including our technology are commercialized, we would receive a royalty based on a percentage of sales in the U.S. related to our issued patent. 8 Table of Contents License Agreement with Yale — August 1994 Under this amended agreement, we have a non-transferable worldwide exclusive license to make, have made, use, sell and practice inventions under certain patents and patent applications for therapeutic and diagnostic purpose. The patents and patent applications under this amended license cover Onrigintm and other sulfonylhydrazine compounds, Triapine® and elvucitabine (ß-L-Fd4C). The term of the license is dictated by the expiration of any patents relating to any inventions or, with respect to non-patented inventions or research, 17 years from 1994 (i.e. through 2011). This amended agreement provides that if Yale, as a result of its own research, identifies potential commercial opportunities for the licensed inventions, we will have the first option to negotiate a commercial license for the commercial opportunities. Yale is entitled to royalties on sales, if any, of resulting products, sublicensing revenues and, with regard to several patents, milestone payments based on the status of clinical trials and/or regulatory approvals. We have granted a sublicense for elvucitabine (ß-L-Fd4C) to a sublicensee. Under the terms of the sublicense agreement, we received a small equity payment and, when and if a product including our technology is developed and commercialized, we could receive payments based on development milestones and royalties based on product revenue. We have also granted a sublicense to Pason granting them the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and market Triapine® in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao. Under the terms of the sublicense agreement, the Company received an upfront technology license fee and is entitled to receive potential milestone payments and potential royalties based on a percentage of Triapine® revenues in those countries. Pason is required to fund the preclinical and clinical development necessary for regulatory approval of Triapine® in those countries. To date, Pason has not conducted trials of Triapine®. License Agreements with Yale — December 1995 Under this amended agreement, we have a non-transferable worldwide exclusive license, expiring over the lives of the licensed patents, to three inventions relating to gene therapy for melanoma. Technology licensed by us under this agreement relates to TAPET®. We have another license agreement with Yale pursuant to which we have a non-transferable worldwide exclusive license, expiring over the lives of the patents, to an invention relating to whitening skin. Under these licensing agreements, Yale is entitled to potential milestone payments based on the status of clinical trials and regulatory approvals. In addition, Yale is entitled to royalties on sales, if any, of resulting products and sublicense revenues. Competition Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and based on scientific and technological factors, the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability to finance and commercialize technological developments, and the ability to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing drugs. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Numerous companies such as Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Genzyme Corporation, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, Chiron Corporation, Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Co. and its subsidiary ImClone Systems Inc., Eisai, Inc., Genentech Inc., Genzyme Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Lorus Therapeutics Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, Wyeth and Xanthus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. have publicly announced their intention to develop anticancer drugs including, in some instances, agents to be used for the treatment of AML or alkylating agents like our compound Onrigintm, or agents that target ribonucleotide reductase like our compound Triapine®. We are aware that one of these companies, with substantially greater financial and other resources than ours, has filed a Supplemental New Drug Application (SNDA) with the FDA for the treatment of adult patients with AML. For risks associated with competition, see “— We face intense competition in the market for anticancer products, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 9 Table of Contents Patents, Licenses and Trade Secrets Our policy is to protect our technology by, among other means, filing patent applications for technology that we consider important to the development of our business. We intend to file additional patent applications, when appropriate, relating to new developments or improvements in our technology and other specific products that we develop. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovations, as well as patents we have licensed or may license from other parties to develop and maintain our competitive position. In connection with our license agreement with Yale dated August 1994, we are the exclusive licensee, subject to certain rights retained by Yale, of a number of issued patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications relating to: • Onrigintm, and other compounds in the sulfonylhydrazine class; • Triapine® and other ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors; and • Elvucitabine (ß-L-Fd4C), its composition and its use for the treatment of HIV and hepatitis B (HBV) infections, and its use in combination with other anti-viral drugs. We are also the exclusive licensee from Yale of an issued U.S. patent and several foreign patents on KS119, a hypoxia-selective anticancer agent previously evaluated in preclinical studies. Vion has also licensed from Yale one U.S. patent relating to synthetic melanin and methods for using synthetic melanin, such as for sunscreen or self-tanning agents, relevant to our MELASYN® technology. Pursuant to our license agreement with Yale dated December 1995, we are the exclusive licensee of a number of issued patents and pending patent applications, U.S. and foreign, relating to our TAPET® technology, which include claims for methods of diagnosing and/or treating various solid tumor cancers, including melanoma, lung cancer, breast cancer and colon cancer. We also have rights, either by license and/or by assignment, to issued patents and pending patent applications, U.S. and foreign, relating to our TAPET® technology. In addition, we have filed a number of U.S. provisional and non-provisional patent applications, an international patent application and a number of foreign patent applications related to this technology. We or our licensors are prosecuting the patent applications related to products we license both with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) and various foreign patent agencies, but we do not know whether any of our applications will result in the issuance of any patents or, whether any issued patent will provide significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented or invalidated. During the course of patent prosecution, patent applications are evaluated for, among other things, utility, novelty, non-obviousness, written description and enablement. The PTO may require that the claims of an initially filed patent application be amended if it is determined that the scope of the claims include subject matter that is not useful, novel, non-obvious, described adequately or enabled. Furthermore, in certain instances, the practice of a patentable invention may require a license from the holder of dominant patent rights. We cannot predict whether our patent applications or our competitors’ patent applications will result in valid patents being issued. An issued patent is entitled to a presumption of validity. The presumption may be challenged in litigation; a court could find any patent of ours or of our competitors invalid and/or unenforceable. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, may also be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Government Regulation Regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries is a significant factor in the development of our products, and will be a significant factor in the manufacture and marketing of these products, if they are successfully developed and approved for sale. All of our products will require regulatory clearances or approvals prior to commercialization. In particular, drugs, biological agents and medical devices are subject to 10 Table of Contents rigorous testing and other approval requirements by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act and its regulations, as well as by regulatory authorities in other countries. Various statutes and regulations also govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, packaging, advertising, storage, registration, listing and recordkeeping related to marketing of such products. Regulatory approval is a lengthy process and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Approval time depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. We cannot be certain that any required FDA or other regulatory approval will be granted or, if granted, will not be withdrawn. The development of a therapeutic drug typically first requires preclinical testing. Preclinical development of therapeutic drugs and biological agents is generally conducted in the laboratory to evaluate the safety and the potential efficacy of a compound by relevant in vitro and in vivo testing. When a product is tested prospectively to determine its safety for purposes of obtaining FDA approvals or clearances, such testing must be performed in accordance with good laboratory practices for non-clinical studies. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug Application (IND). The IND must become effective, the study must be approved by an institutional review board, and informed consent must be obtained from the clinical subjects, before human clinical trials can begin. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a three-phase process. In Phase I, clinical trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the tolerated drug dose, early safety profile, proper scheduling and the pattern of drug distribution, absorption and metabolism. In Phase II, clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine efficacy, dose-response relationships and expanded evidence of safety. In Phase III, large-scale, multi-center, controlled clinical trials are conducted in order to: • provide enough data for statistical proof of safety and efficacy; • compare the experimental therapy to existing therapies; • uncover unexpected safety problems, such as previously unobserved side-effects; and • generate product labeling. In the case of drugs for cancer and other life-threatening diseases, the initial human testing is generally conducted in patients rather than in healthy volunteers. In May 2007, our Phase III trial of Onrigintm in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML was placed on clinical hold by the FDA. The FDA places a trial on clinical hold when the FDA does not believe or cannot confirm that the trial can be conducted without unreasonable risk to patients. We had suspended accrual and treatment of patients on this trial based on an interim evaluation by the DSMB for the trial that any advantage in the trial’s primary endpoint, the overall response rate, was being compromised by the observed mortality rate on the study. We subsequently performed a comprehensive safety and efficacy analysis with our personnel and external and independent medical consultants. In November 2007, we announced that discussions with the DSMB for the trial regarding the findings of the medical and safety review had been completed and the next step of the process was to present the findings and recommendations to the regulatory authorities. In January 2008, we announced that the FDA had lifted the clinical hold on this trial, and that we have reached initial agreement with the FDA on modifications to our original Phase III study protocol resulting in the requirement to conduct a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML if we pursue this indication. The original Phase III trial is now closed. Among other changes, any new trial may include a lowered dose of Onrigintm in the experimental arm of the trial, and prophylactic therapy with antibiotics, anti-fungals and growth factors for all patients. There can be no assurance that we will start a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML at any time in the future. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing are submitted to the FDA either as part of a NDA for drugs, or a biologics license application (BLA) for biologics, for approval to commence commercial distribution. For a biologic drug, the manufacturer generally must also obtain approval of an establishment license application. In responding to an NDA or BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines that the application does not satisfy its regulatory approval criteria. It may take several years to obtain approval after submission of an NDA or BLA, although approval is not assured. 11 Table of Contents In February 2009, we submitted a NDA for Onrigintm with the FDA based on our pivotal Phase II trial of the drug as a single agent in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML, supplemented by data from a previous Phase II trial of Onrigintm in elderly AML. In October 2005, Onrigintm was designated a fast track product for the treatment of patients over 60 years of age with poor-risk AML and accordingly we have requested priority review of our NDA submission. Within several months of the NDA submission date, the FDA will determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Although preliminary data from the pivotal trial indicated that we met the criteria for a successful trial based on the primary endpoint, the overall response rate, there can be no assurance that the NDA will be: (i) accepted for filing or (ii) reviewed and/or approved on a priority or timely basis by the FDA, if at all. If an NDA is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. Under FDA policies, a drug candidate is eligible for priority review, or review within a six-month time frame from the time a complete NDA is accepted for filing, if the drug candidate provides a significant improvement compared to marketed drugs in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. A fast track-designated drug candidate would ordinarily meet FDA’s criteria for priority review. We have asked for a priority review for Onrigintm but there can be no assurance that priority review will be granted. The FDA’s goal for reviewing non-priority NDAs is ten months. The FDA can extend the review process to consider certain information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products or drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with good clinical practice (GCP). Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured or tested. The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs) is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied. After the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues an approval letter, an approvable letter or a not-approvable letter. Both approvable and not-approvable letters generally outline the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA would issue an approval letter. The FDA may extend the review period of the NDA filing for such resubmissions depending on the type of information included. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug’s safety or efficacy and may impose other conditions, including labeling restrictions which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. Once an NDA is approved, a product may be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities including those involving the internet. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement before the change can be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs. 12 Table of Contents Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports is required following FDA approval of an NDA. The FDA also may require post-marketing studies, known as Phase IV studies, risk minimization action plans and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality control as well as drug manufacture, packaging, and labeling procedures must continue to conform to current good manufacturing practices after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA during which the agency inspects manufacturing facilities to access compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards, if it encounters problems following initial marketing, or if previously unrecognized safety concerns arise. We also will be subject to widely varying foreign regulations governing clinical trials and pharmaceutical sales. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of other countries must be obtained before marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We intend, to the extent possible, to rely on foreign licensees to obtain regulatory approval to market our products in other countries. To date we have not entered into any such arrangements. In October 2004, we received orphan drug designation for Onrigintm in AML in the United States. Under the Orphan Drug Act, a sponsor may obtain designation by the FDA of a drug or biologic as an ‘orphan’ drug for a particular indication. Orphan drug designation is granted to drugs for rare diseases or conditions, including many cancers, with a prevalence of less than 200,000 cases in the United States. The sponsor of a drug that has obtained orphan drug designation and which is the first to obtain approval of a marketing application for such drug is entitled to marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years for the designated indication. This means that no other company can market the same orphan drug for the same indication approved by the FDA for seven years after approval unless such company proves its drug is clinically superior or the approved orphan drug marketer cannot supply demand for the drug. Legislation is periodically considered that could significantly affect the Orphan Drug Act. We intend to seek additional orphan drug designations for our products where appropriate. In January 2006, we received orphan drug designation for Onrigintm for the treatment of AML in Europe. Orphan drug status is granted by the European Commission to promote development of drugs to treat rare diseases or conditions. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage or shorten the duration of the EMEA review and approval process. Orphan drug designation may entitle Onrigintm to: (i) ten years of market exclusivity for the indication of AML; (ii) protocol assistance from the EMEA to optimize drug development in preparing a dossier that will meet regulatory requirements; (iii) reduced fees associated with applying for market approval; and (iv) access to European Union research funding. In addition to regulations relating to drug development, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes and transport of hazardous materials. For example, by letter dated March 5, 2009, we have been informed by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that we are under investigation for alleged violations of the Hazardous Materials Regulations relating to the shipment of hazardous materials that were not declared, packaged, marked, labeled or otherwise identified as containing hazardous materials. Certain of these laws also impose strict liability for the costs of cleaning up, and for damages resulting from, sites of past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances and materials for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties operated by us and at off-site locations where we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection. Expenditures for compliance with environmental laws have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures. For risks associated with environment, see “— If environmental laws become stricter in 13 Table of Contents the future, we may face large capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Manufacturing, Distribution and Marketing We do not have experience in manufacturing any products for commercial use, or in marketing, distributing or selling any products, and have not yet commercially introduced any products. We do not currently have the capability to manufacture or market, distribute or sell on a commercial scale any products that we develop. We have only recently established pre-commercial capabilities in these areas. We use single source third parties to manufacture limited quantities of our products for use in clinical activities. We manufacture our active pharmaceutical ingredient for Onrigintm at SAFC, a member of the Sigma-Aldrich Inc., under an amended manufacturing agreement expiring September 2009. Under the terms of a manufacturing agreement expiring in December 2011, Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. (Ben Venue), a division of Boeringher Ingelheim, is our exclusive manufacturer of Onrigintm finished drug product in the United States. We will need to validate our manufacturing process for Onrigintm and our other products before we can sell them commercially. We expect to validate the manufacturing process for Onrigintm finished product at Ben Venue but will not be able to market any product until we complete the validation as part of the regulatory approval process. For risks associated with manufacturing, see “— We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates. If these third-party manufacturers fail to manufacture product candidates of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at acceptable costs, development and commercialization of our products could be delayed” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We are aware that Ben Venue received a Warning Letter from the FDA in November 2007 and that subsequent to that date the FDA had completed an on-site inspection of their facility that concluded with the issuance of an FDA Form 483 (483). A 483 is a form issued by the FDA to list observations made during a facility inspection. Ben Venue informed us that it submitted a response to the FDA proposing a plan to address the issues identified in the 483 and that the FDA has now indicated that Ben Venue’s compliance status has been changed in the FDA databases to “Approvable”, allowing for the approval of NDAs, ANDAs (Abbreviated New Drug Application) and the issuance of CPPs (Certificates of Pharmaceutical Product) needed for export to many foreign countries for products manufactured by Ben Venue. In June 2008, we were notified by Ben Venue that it had received a letter from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) with observations from a recent audit of its facilities, and that it had responded to this letter with a plan to address the issues raised. If Ben Venue is not successful in completing the corrections of the observations that resulted in the issuance of the 483 or the audit letter from the EMEA on a timely basis, our ability to obtain FDA approval to manufacture Onrigintm for commercial purposes could be delayed. We believe that we have sufficient inventory of Onrigintm to conduct our current and planned clinical trials through June 2009 in Europe and beyond in the U.S. However, if Ben Venue is not able to manufacture additional supplies of Onrigintm in the future, we will have to establish a new source for finished product manufacturing, and our operations could be materially adversely affected. Our pre-commercial marketing efforts for Onrigintm in 2008 included attendance at industry conferences, meetings with key opinion leaders, and brand development. If our products are approved for sale by regulatory authorities, we will need to develop our capabilities to market, distribute and sell our products or contract with third parties to do so. In the event we decide to establish a marketing and sales force, we will be required to hire and retain additional personnel. For risks associated with marketing and distribution, see “— If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future drug products” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement In the U.S. and markets in other countries, sales of any products such as Onrigintm for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors. Third party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to 14 Table of Contents the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare product candidates. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of Onrigintm. Onrigintm may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. The marketability of any products such as Onrigintm for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Employees As of March 1, 2009, we had 43 employees. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions with the Company are as follows: Name Age Position Alan Kessman 62 Chief Executive Officer and Director Howard B. Johnson 49 President and Chief Financial Officer Ann Lee Cahill 48 Vice President, Clinical Development William F. Hahne, M.D. 55 Vice President, Medical Ivan King, Ph.D. 53 Vice President, Research and Development Tanya Lewis 38 Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance Karen Schmedlin 46 Vice President, Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Secretary James Tanguay, Ph.D. 47 Vice President, Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls Business Experience Alan Kessman has been our Chief Executive Officer since January 1999 and has served on our Board of Directors since October 1998. Mr. Kessman also served as our President from April 1999 to January 2004. Mr. Kessman is a partner of PS Capital LLC, an international investment and management advisor. From 1983 to 1998, Mr. Kessman was chairman, chief executive officer and president of Executone Information Systems, Inc., a developer and marketer of voice and data communications systems. Howard B. Johnson has been our President since January 2004 and our Chief Financial Officer since March 2002. Mr. Johnson was a vice president and a consultant for Nutrition 21, Inc., from November 2001 until March 2002. From May 1999 until February 2001, Mr. Johnson was chief financial officer of IBS Interactive, Inc. (now Digital Fusion, Inc.). Mr. Johnson founded and from 1996 to 1999 was chairman and chief executive officer of MedWorks Corporation, a privately held medical device company. From 1983 to 1993, Mr. Johnson was an investment banker at PaineWebber Group, Inc. Ann Lee Cahill has been our Vice President, Clinical Development since October 2004. Ms. Cahill was our Senior Director of Clinical Affairs from October 2003 to October 2004 and Director of Clinical Affairs from January 2002 to October 2003. From 1997 to 2002, Ms. Cahill was a member of the project management group of Schering-Plough Corporation, including leadership roles in clinical affairs for hepatitis and medical oncology. From 1985 to 1997, Ms. Cahill was a physician associate in a medical oncology practice. William F. Hahne, M.D. has been our Vice President, Medical since February 2008. Prior to joining Vion, Dr. Hahne was Vice President, Clinical Development, and then Vice President of Clinical Development and Medical Affairs of Celsion Corporation from January 2006 to December 2007. From 2003 to 2005, Dr Hahne was 15 Table of Contents Vice President of Clinical Development for CuraGen Corporation. From 1986 to 2002, Dr. Hahne worked in various positions in medical affairs for Glaxo Inc., Merrell Dow Research Institute, Marion Merrell Dow, Hoechst Marion Rousel, and Eisai, Inc. Dr. Hahne received his medical degree from Cornell University Medical College and conducted his residency in general surgery at Emory University Affiliated Hospitals in Atlanta, Georgia. Ivan King, Ph.D. has been our Vice President, Research and Development since January 2004. Dr. King was our Vice President of Research from July 1998 to January 2004, Senior Director of Biology from April 1997 to July 1998 and Director of Biology from October 1995 to April 1997. From 1990 to 1995, Dr. King was a section leader in the department of tumor biology at Schering-Plough Research Institute in charge of the cell biology and in vivo biology groups where he was responsible for identifying targets, developing high throughput assays, evaluating in vitro and in vivo activities of drug candidates and recommending candidates for clinical development. Dr. King’s first industrial position was as a senior research scientist at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Tanya Lewis has been our Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance since December 1, 2008. Prior to joining Vion, Ms. Lewis headed her own consulting firm from August 2008 to November 2008 and was a consultant to us. From October 2007 to June 2008, Ms. Lewis was employed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. where she held increasing roles of responsibility in regulatory affairs. From April 2007 to June 2008, Ms. Lewis was Senior Director of Regulatory Affairs, Oncology; from April 2006 to April 2007, she was Director of Regulatory Affairs, Oncology; from November 2005 to April 2006, she was Associate Director, Regulatory Affairs, Oncology; from September 2004 to November 2005, she served as Associate Director of Inflammation and from June 2003 to April 2004, she was Associate Director of Cardiovascular. Karen Schmedlin has been our Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer since March 2006 and our Secretary since April 2001. Ms. Schmedlin was our Controller from October 2000 to March 2006. From 1990 to 2000, Ms. Schmedlin held various finance and marketing positions at Executone Information Systems, Inc., a developer and marketer of voice and data communications systems, including director of marketing operations, division controller and manager of financial reporting. From 1984 to 1990, Ms. Schmedlin was a senior auditor with Arthur Andersen & Co. James Tanguay, Ph.D. has been our Vice President, Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls since April 2007. From October 2003 to April 2007, Dr. Tanguay was Vice President, Technical Operations at Kos Pharmaceuticals, acquired by Abbott Laboratories in 2006. In that capacity, he was responsible for strategic planning and administration of all domestic and international commercial manufacturing, testing and distribution. Dr. Tanguay started at Kos Pharmaceuticals in 1996, and held several positions in quality control and analytical sciences while rising to his final position in senior management. Directors The directors of the Company and their respective ages are as follows: Name Age Position William R. Miller(1) 80 Director George Bickerstaff 53 Director Alan Kessman 62 Chief Executive Officer and Director Kevin Rakin(1,3) 48 Director Alan C. Sartorelli, Ph.D.(2) 77 Director Ian Williams, D. Phil.(2,3) 55 Director Gary K. Willis(1,3) 63 Director (1) Member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. (2) Member of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. (3) Member of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Our directors are elected annually to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors shall have been duly elected and shall qualify. Our executive officers are appointed annually by our 16 Table of Contents Board of Directors and serve for such period or until their earlier resignation or removal by the Board. No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers, directors or director nominees. Business Experience William R. Miller has been Chairman of our Board since April 1995. From February 1995 until April 1995, Mr. Miller was Chairman of the Board of OncoRx, Inc., which merged into the Company (then known as MelaRx, Inc.) in April 1995. From 1964 until his retirement in 1991, Mr. Miller was employed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in various positions, including vice chairman of the board commencing in 1985. George Bickerstaff has been a director since June 2005. Mr. Bickerstaff has been a managing director of CRT Investment Banking LLC since January 2009 and with CRT Capital Group LLC, both investment banking companies, from June 2005 until December 2008. Mr. Bickerstaff has been a member of the board of directors of BMP Sunstone Corp., a U.S. listed Chinese pharmaceutical and distribution company, since May 2008. From October 2000 to May 2004, Mr. Bickerstaff held various positions with Novartis, including chief financial officer of Novartis Pharma AG. From 1998 to September 2000, Mr. Bickerstaff held senior finance and operating roles in venture-funded businesses and, prior to that, held various financial positions with the Dun and Bradstreet Corporation, including Chief Financial Officer of IMS Healthcare. Kevin Rakin has been a director since January 2007. He has been a member of the board of directors of Ipsogen S.A., a molecular diagnostics company since March 2006. Mr. Rakin has been chairman and chief executive officer of Advanced BioHealing, Inc.,a regenerative medicine company, since February 2007. Mr. Rakin was previously an executive-in-residence at Canaan Partners from January 2006 to February 2007. From August 2002 to October 2005, he was president and chief executive officer of Genaissance Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotechnology company he co-founded. Mr. Rakin also served as a member of the board of directors of Genaissance until it was acquired by Clinical Data, Inc. in October 2005. Mr. Rakin also serves on the board of directors of Connecticut United for Research Excellence (CURE), Connecticut’s Bioscience Cluster. Alan C. Sartorelli, Ph.D. has been a director since 1995. Dr. Sartorelli has been an Alfred Gilman Professor of Pharmacology at Yale University School of Medicine since 1967 and Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board since April 1995. Dr. Sartorelli was Chairman of the OncoRx, Inc. Scientific Advisory Board from May 1993 to April 1995 and director of Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center from 1984 to 1993. Ian Williams, D. Phil. has been a director since June 2006. From 1981 until his retirement in 2004, he was employed at Pfizer, Inc. in various leadership positions in pharmaceutical research and development and strategic planning. He retired as Executive Director of the Strategic Management Group where he was responsible for worldwide strategy for Pfizer Research and Development. Dr. Williams now heads his own consulting company. Gary K. Willis has been a director since June 2005. Mr. Willis is also a member of the board of directors of Rofin-Sinar Technologies and Plug Power Inc. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Willis was chairman, president and chief executive officer of the Zygo Corporation, a developer and marketer of optical systems and components. From 1984 to 1990, Mr. Willis was chairman, president and chief executive officer of the Foxboro Company, a supplier of instruments, systems, and services for industrial process automation. Available Information The following information can be found on our website at http://www.vionpharm.com or may be obtained free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations Department at (203) 498-4210 or by sending an email message to info@vionpharm.com: • our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the SEC; • our policies related to corporate governance, including the charter for the Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, our code of ethics and business conduct applying to our directors, 17 Table of Contents officers and employees, and our code of ethics applying to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and senior financial officials; and • the charters of the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of our filings with the SEC can be obtained from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information can be obtained about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our future business, financial performance or share price. Before you invest in our Company, you should carefully consider the risks described below which could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. For example, additional risks presently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely to occur could also impair our operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any of those additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively affected. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception, expect to continue to incur operating losses, may never be profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred losses since inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $239.0 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research, development and preclinical and clinical trials of product candidates. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we pursue regulatory approval of Onrigintm, continue to conduct clinical trials, continue our other research and development efforts, and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our future profitability depends on our receiving regulatory approval of our product candidates and our ability to successfully manufacture and market approved drugs. The extent of our future losses and the timing of our profitability are highly uncertain. We do not have any products approved for sale. If the FDA does not accept our NDA for Onrigintm or if the FDA delays approval or does not approve the NDA for Onrigintm, at all, we will not be able to sell Onrigintm and the value of our company and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. We cannot sell or market our drugs without regulatory approval. If we cannot obtain regulatory approval for our products, the value of our company and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. In the United States, we must obtain approval from the FDA for each drug that we intend to sell. Accordingly, if and when we complete the several required phases of clinical testing for any drug candidate, we will submit our test results to the FDA. FDA review may generally take up to two years and approval is not assured. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed outside the United States. A delay in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates will also have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, we filed an NDA in February 2009 based upon our pivotal Phase II trial of Onrigintm in previously untreated elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML, supplemented by data from a previous Phase II trial of Onrigintm in elderly AML. Within several months of the NDA filing date, the FDA will determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Although preliminary data from the pivotal trial indicate that we met the criteria for a successful trial based on the primary endpoint, the overall response rate, there can be no assurance that the NDA will be (i) accepted for filing or (ii) reviewed and/or approved on a timely basis by the FDA, if it all. If the FDA does not accept the NDA for filing, or if the FDA delays approval to a time when we would no longer be in a cash position to commercialize the drug or does not approve the NDA filed by us, our business will be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of Onrigintm in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML has already been delayed in light of the fact that our Phase III trial of Onrigintm in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML was put on clinical hold by the FDA in May 2007, and may be further delayed. Although in January 2008 the FDA lifted the clinical hold on the trial, there can be no assurance that we will start a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML at any time in the future, or that any new trial would not in the future be put on regulatory hold or that the new trial will result in regulatory approval of Onrigintm in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML, or what the timing of that approval might be. We are heavily dependent on the success of our lead product candidate Onrigintm which is still under development. If Onrigintm is not successful in clinical trials or we do not obtain FDA approval of Onrigintm, or if FDA delays approval or narrows the indications for which we may market Onrigintm, our business will be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that our ability to generate revenues in the foreseeable future will depend on the successful development and commercialization of Onrigintm and, in particular and in the nearer term, for the treatment of previously untreated elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. We have focused substantially all of our resources on the development of Onrigintm for the treatment of AML. The commercial success of Onrigintm will depend on several factors, including filing an NDA based on our pivotal Phase II clinical trial for Onrigintm in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML; receipt of approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities through third party manufacturers; successfully launching commercial sales and distribution of the products, either ourselves or through third parties; and acceptance of the products in the medical community and by third party payors, none of which can be assured. If the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities do grant approval for Onrigintm, they may narrow the indications for which we are permitted to market it, may impose other restrictions on the use or marketing of the product, or may require us to conduct additional post-marketing trials. A narrowed indication or other restrictions may limit the market potential for Onrigintm and any obligation to conduct additional clinical trials would result in increased expenditures and lower revenues. If we are not successful in commercializing our lead product candidate Onrigintm, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business will be materially adversely affected and we may need to curtail or cease operations. We filed an NDA based on our pivotal Phase II clinical trial in February 2009, supplemented by data from a previous Phase II trial of Onrigintm in elderly AML. Within several months of the NDA filing date, the FDA will determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. If the FDA does not accept the NDA filed by us, or if the FDA delays review and/or approval or does not approve the NDA filed by us, our business will be materially adversely affected. In addition, as a result, we may have to conduct additional clinical trials of or provide additional information for Onrigintm before regulatory approval may be obtained. These additional trials or compilation of requested information may take substantial time, if not years, to complete and require substantial additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to start or complete additional clinical trials or that additional financing can be raised to conduct them. In May 2007, we announced that we would suspend enrollment and patient treatment of our Phase III trial of Onrigintm in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML pending a detailed review of all of the data from the trial. This decision was based on a planned interim analysis of clinical data by the trial’s DSMB that resulted in a recommendation that enrollment and further treatment of patients on study be suspended. The DSMB’s recommendation was based on their evaluation that any advantage in the primary end point, the response rate, was being compromised by the mortality observed on the study. In May 2007, the FDA placed the trial on clinical hold. We subsequently performed a comprehensive safety and efficacy analysis with our personnel and external and independent medical consultants. In November 2007, we announced that discussions with the DSMB for the trial regarding the findings of the medical and safety review had been completed and the next step of the process was to present the findings and recommendations to the regulatory authorities. In January 2008, we announced that the FDA had lifted the clinical hold on the trial and that we had reached initial agreement with the FDA on modifications to the original Phase III study protocol resulting in the requirement to conduct a new Phase III 19 Table of Contents trial in relapsed AML, if we pursue regulatory approval in this indication. The original Phase III trial is now closed. There can be no assurance that we will start a new Phase III trial in relapsed AML at any time in the future. We would need to reevaluate the development of Onrigintm if: (i) the FDA did not accept our NDA for filing, (ii) the FDA asked us for more information or additional clinical trials of Onrigintm, or (iii) data from any of Onrigintm’s clinical trials raised issues relative to its safety and efficacy. In such event, we would alter the drug or dose as used in the trial, modify the clinical trial protocol, commence additional trials, or abandon the drug development project. In any such event, our business, operations and prospects would be materially adversely affected, and our ability to apply for or obtain regulatory approval might be delayed, or we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval at all. Even though we have filed an NDA, Onrigintm continues to be evaluated in clinical trials. If these trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval for Onrigintm or our efforts to expand the product label for Onrigintm could be delayed. Our product candidates are all pharmaceutical products. We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates, including in human clinical trials, before we can apply for or obtain regulatory approval to sell our products or to expand the product label. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results. We would need to reevaluate any drug that did not test favorably and either alter the drug or dose, modify the trial protocol, commence additional trials, or abandon the drug development project completely. In such circumstances, we would not be able to apply for or obtain regulatory approval or expand the product label for a product for an extended period of time, if ever. Factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: • slow patient enrollment; • long treatment time required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; • negative or equivocal findings of the DSMB for a trial; and • lack of sufficient funds. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue or complete our product development, regulatory approval or commercialization efforts. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund operations and complete our product development. As of December 31, 2008, we had $38 million in cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations and continue our product development. We have determined to focus substantially all of our resources on the development and commercialization of Onrigintm. However, we will not have an approved and marketable product unless and until we receive regulatory approval from the FDA or European regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that we will be approved by the FDA or European regulatory authorities. Under our current operating plan, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations after the first quarter of 2010. The current global economy and capital markets have been challenging for any issuer to raise capital through public offerings or private placements of securities, and especially so with respect to the small cap biotech sector that we operate in. This situation makes the timing and potential for future equity financings uncertain. We may not get funding when we need it or on terms that are agreeable to us, if at all. We believe that our stock price and the number of shares we have authorized and available to satisfy any equity portion of such financing will have a significant impact on our ability to obtain such financing. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate our research and development activities, clinical studies or future operations. The delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market® may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. 20 Table of Contents We might have to license our technology to others. This could result in sharing revenues which we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: • the progress, timing and scope of our product development programs; • the progress, timing and scope of our clinical trials; • the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities; • the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships; and • our partners’ commitment of time and resource to the development of our products. We are significantly leveraged. In February 2007, we issued $60 million principal amount of our convertible senior notes due February 15, 2012. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and • limit our ability to merge with or acquire other companies. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations on the notes will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If the testing or use of our product candidates harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products. These risks are particularly inherent in human trials of our proposed products. Unacceptable side effects may be discovered during preclinical and clinical testing of one or more of our potential products. Side effects and other liability risks could give rise to viable product liability claims against us. While we have obtained insurance coverage for patients enrolled in clinical trials, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms; insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, and we may need additional insurance coverage for expanded clinical trials and commercial activity. As a result, product liability claims, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the side effects are determined to be unacceptable, we will not be able to commercialize our products. The commercial success of Onrigintm will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community. If Onrigintm receives marketing approval, it may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community. If Onrigintm does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, 21 Table of Contents we may not generate sufficient product revenue and we may not ever become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of Onrigintm, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of any side effects or toxicity; • any limitations or warnings in the product’s approved labeling; • the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; • pricing; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the willingness of the target population to try new therapies; • the willingness of physicians to try new therapies. • the strength of marketing and distribution support and timing of market introduction; and • sufficient third party insurance coverage or reimbursement; Even if a potential product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in preclinical and clinical trials, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third party payors on the benefits of Onrigintm may never be successful and, in any event would require the expenditure of significant resources, which resources we currently do not have and may never be successful in raising. If we are not successful in building market acceptance for Onrigintm we may never generate sufficient revenue or achieve or maintain profitability. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third party payors for Onrigintm or if we are unable to obtain an acceptable price for Onrigintm, our prospects for generating revenue and achieving profitability will suffer. Our prospects for generating revenue and achieving profitability will depend significantly upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of Onrigintm from governmental and other third party payors in the U.S. Reimbursement by a third party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third party payor’s determination that use of Onrigintm is appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Obtaining reimbursement approval for Onrigintm from each government or other third party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use Onrigintm to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement or we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of Onrigintm to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA. In addition, there is a risk that full reimbursement may not be available for high priced products. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is toward cost containment. We expect recent changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care to continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. If Onrigintm reaches commercialization, such changes may have a significant impact on our ability to set a price we believe is fair for Onrigintm and may affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability. 22 Table of Contents If we are found to be infringing on patents or trade secrets owned by others, we may be forced to cease or alter our drug development efforts, obtain a license to continue the development or sale of our products, and/or pay damages. Our manufacturing processes and potential products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others, or the trade secrets of those persons and entities. As the drug development industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our processes and potential products may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or trade secrets of others. These other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or process. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to conduct clinical tests, manufacture or market the affected product or use the affected process. Required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and the results of litigation are uncertain. If we become involved in litigation or other proceedings, it could consume a substantial portion of our financial resources and the efforts of our personnel. We rely on confidentiality agreements to protect our trade secrets. If these agreements are breached by our employees or other parties, our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. We rely on trade secrets that we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and other parties. If these agreements are breached, our competitors may obtain and use our trade secrets to gain a competitive advantage over us. We may not have any remedies against our competitors and any remedies that may be available to us may not be adequate to protect our business or compensate us for the damaging disclosure. In addition, we may have to expend resources to protect our interests from possible infringement by others. A substantial portion of our technology is subject to limited retained rights of our licensors, and we may not be able to prevent the grant of similar rights to third parties. A substantial portion of our technology is licensed from academic institutions which technology license agreements are subject to the federal Bayh Dole Act, pursuant to which the federal government has certain limited rights to use the technology and to even require us to grant a license to one or more third parties if we are not fully developing the technology. In certain cases we also have the right to practice improvements on the licensed technology to the extent they are encompassed by the licensed patents and within our field of use. Our licensors may currently own and may in the future obtain additional patents and patent applications that are helpful for the development, manufacture and commercial sale of our anticipated products. We may be unable to agree with one or more academic institutions from which we have obtained licenses that certain intellectual property developed by researchers at these academic institutions is covered by our existing licenses. In the event that the new intellectual property is not covered by our existing licenses, we would be required to negotiate a new license agreement. We may not be able to reach agreement with current or future licensors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or the terms may not permit us to sell our products at a profit after payment of royalties, which could harm our business. Our licenses generally also may be terminated by the licensor if we default in performance of our obligations or become bankrupt. If any of our licenses are terminated, we may lose certain rights to manufacture, sell, market and distribute products which would significantly reduce our actual and potential revenues and have a material and negative impact on our operations. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents or trade secrets, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal 23 Table of Contents means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Moreover, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain for products that are currently in the early stages of development because we cannot predict which of these products will ultimately reach the commercial market or whether the commercial versions of these products will incorporate proprietary technologies. Our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable technologies, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. As a result, our owned and licensed patents may not be valid and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents and to maintain trade secret protection for our technology. The extent to which we are unable to do so could materially harm our business. We or our licensors have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain products. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with adequate protection from competition. Furthermore, it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, if we have a preferred competitive position because of such patents, any preferred position held by us would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, we could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Litigation may also absorb significant management time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to and will continue to attempt to protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Certain of our patent rights are licensed to us by third parties. If we fail to comply with the terms of these license agreements, our rights to those patents may be terminated, and we will be unable to conduct our business. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to recruit and retain key personnel, our research and development programs may be delayed. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly, Alan Kessman, our chief executive officer and director; Howard B. Johnson, our president and chief financial officer; Ann Lee Cahill, our vice president, clinical development; William F. Hahne, M.D., our vice president, medical; Ivan King, Ph.D., our vice president, research and development; Tanya Lewis, our vice president of regulatory and quality affairs, and James Tanguay, Ph.D., our vice president, chemistry, manufacturing & control. There is intense competition in the drug development industry for qualified scientific and technical personnel. Since our business is very technical and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business, particularly in light of our need to raise additional financing in order to continue our operations after the first quarter of 2010. We have no key man insurance policies on any of the officers listed above and we only have an employment agreement with Mr. Kessman. Although we adopted a retention plan in July 2008 covering all our employees through January 31, 2009, we have not adopted a retention plan covering the period subsequent to that date, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that any of our senior management or scientific personnel will remain with the company. If we lose the services of our management and scientific personnel or fail to recruit other scientific and technical personnel, our research and product development programs will be significantly and detrimentally affected. For example, the elements of our intended plan of operations for the next twelve months, which include, among other elements, pursuing regulatory approval for Onrigintm in the U.S., could be delayed in the event of management departures. We face intense competition in the market for anticancer products, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have publicly announced their intention to develop drugs for the treatment of cancer including, in some instances, the development of agents which treat AML and/or are alkylating agents similar to our compound Onrigintm and agents which target ribonucleotide reductase similar to our compound Triapine®. These companies include, but are not limited to, Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, Chiron Corporation, Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Co. and its subsidiary ImClone Systems Inc., Eisai, Inc., Genentech Inc., Genzyme Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Lorus Therapeutics Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, Wyeth, and Xanthus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We are aware that one of these companies has filed a SNDA with the FDA for the treatment of adult patients with AML. These and other large pharmaceutical companies have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do and have substantially greater experience in undertaking preclinical and clinical testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In addition, our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly than us and in developing and commercializing products that are safer and more effective than those that we propose to develop. The existence of these products, other products or treatments of which we are not aware or products or treatments that may be developed in the future may adversely affect the marketability of our products by rendering them less competitive or obsolete. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. If our corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others do not conduct activities in accordance with our arrangements, our research and development efforts may be delayed. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products entails entering into various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others. We currently depend on the following third parties: • Healthcare facilities in the United States and other countries to perform human clinical trials of our products; • Clinical research organizations in the United States and other countries to monitor and collect data related to human clinical trials; 25 Table of Contents • The NCI to perform human clinical trials of Triapine®; • Contract manufacturers to produce our products for use in clinical and potential commercial activities; • Consultants to assist with the preparation of our NDA and our commercialization efforts; and • Yale for technologies that are licensed by them to us. If the third parties do not conduct activities in accordance with the arrangements we have with them, or if these arrangements are terminated, our product development efforts may be delayed. We may also rely on other collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals and to manufacture and market our products. The amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities by these other parties may not be within our control. If Yale does not conduct research relating to products we would like to pursue, we may never realize any benefits from our funding provided to Yale. We have paid approximately $10.8 million to fund research at Yale (including research activities of one of our directors, an affiliate of Yale) through December 31, 2008. We may continue to support certain research projects at Yale. We generally do not have the right to control the research that Yale conducts with our funding, and our funds may not be used to conduct research relating to products that we would like to pursue. Additionally, if the research conducted by Yale results in technologies that Yale has not already licensed or agreed to license to us, we may need to negotiate additional license agreements or we may be unable to utilize those technologies. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future drug products. We have no experience with marketing, sales and distribution of drug products and have only recently established pre-commercial capability in those areas. If we are unable to establish capabilities to sell, market and distribute our products, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully sell our future drug products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates. If these third-party manufacturers fail to manufacture product candidates of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at acceptable costs, development and commercialization of our products could be delayed. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we have no experience in the commercial manufacturing of drugs or in validating drug manufacturing processes. We have contracted with two third-party manufacturers, SAFC, a member of the Sigma-Aldrich Inc., and Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. (Ben Venue), to produce our product candidates for regulatory approvals and clinical trials. We have limited supplies of our product candidates for clinical trials. If our supplies are damaged or destroyed, either during storage or shipping or otherwise, our clinical trials may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We further intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute commercial quantities of our product candidates. We will also rely on our third-party manufacturing partners to work with us to complete the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control, or CMC, section of any marketing approval application we may file. Contract manufacturers are obliged to operate in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs or any other regulatory requirements, or to document their adherence to such practices, may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical trials and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. In any such event, our business would be materially adversely affected. Changing contract manufacturers may be difficult, and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers requires validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with 26 Table of Contents government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated cGMPs. Such validation may be costly and time-consuming. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly, if at all. Either of these factors could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or cause a decline in potential product revenues. Drug manufacturers are subject to on-going, periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third-party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or them, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant market approval of drugs, delays, suspension of clinical trials, withdrawal of approvals, seizures, detentions or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We are aware that Ben Venue, our manufacturer of Onrigintm finished drug product, received a Warning Letter from the FDA in November 2007 and that subsequent to that date the FDA had completed an on-site inspection of their facility that concluded with the issuance of an FDA Form 483 (483). A 483 is a form issued by the FDA to list observations made during a facility inspection. Ben Venue informed us that it submitted a response to the FDA proposing a plan to address the issues identified in the 483 and that the FDA has now indicated that Ben Venue’s compliance status has been changed in the FDA databases to “Approvable”, allowing for the approval of NDAs, ANDAs (Abbreviated New Drug Application) and the issuance of CPPs (Certificates of Pharmaceutical Product) needed for export to many foreign countries for products manufactured by Ben Venue. In June 2008, we were notified by Ben Venue that it had received a letter from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) with observations from a recent audit of its facilities, and that it had responded to this letter with a plan to address the issues raised. If Ben Venue is not successful in completing the corrections of the observations that resulted in the issuance of the 483 or the audit letter from the EMEA on a timely basis, our ability to obtain FDA approval to manufacture Onrigintm for commercial purposes could be delayed. We believe that we have sufficient inventory of Onrigintm to conduct our current and planned clinical trials through June 2009 in Europe and beyond in the U.S. However, if Ben Venue is not able to manufacture additional supplies of Onrigintm in the future, we will have to establish a new source for finished product manufacturing, and our operations could be materially adversely affected. Our product candidates for preclinical and clinical trials are manufactured in small quantities by third-party manufacturers. We have not validated the manufacturing process for Onrigintm to date. In order to obtain marketing approval for any of these product candidates, we will need to enter into and maintain long-term supply agreements with our existing or new third-party manufacturers, such as our agreements with SAFC or Ben Venue, and demonstrate that we can manufacture sufficient quantities under a validated manufacturing process for commercial sale. Our third-party manufacturers may terminate our agreements, may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity, validate our manufacturing process, or apply at commercial scale the current manufacturing process for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. If this occurs, we may be required to seek out additional manufacturing partners requiring additional validation studies, which the relevant government regulator must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully validate or increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure of our third-party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. The conduct of our operations may subject us to liabilities under environmental laws, and we may face large capital expenditures in order to comply with such laws. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to expend to comply with comprehensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We must comply with environmental laws that govern, among other things, all emissions, waste water discharge and solid and hazardous 27 Table of Contents waste disposal, and the remediation of contamination associated with generation, handling and disposal activities. To date, we have not incurred significant costs and are not aware of any significant liabilities associated with our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, by letter dated March 5, 2009, we have been informed by the FAA that we are under investigation for alleged violations of the Hazardous Materials Regulations relating to the shipment of hazardous materials that were not declared, packaged, marked, labeled or otherwise identified as containing hazardous materials. Under the provisions of Title 49, United States Code 5123 (a)(1), Vion could be subject to civil penalties, although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate resolution of the investigation. Environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and may face large capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws. We have limited capital and are uncertain whether we will be able to pay for significantly large capital expenditures. Also, future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. All of our operations are performed under strict environmental and health safety controls consistent with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to control all health and safety problems. If we cannot control those problems, we may be held liable and may be required to pay the costs of remediation. These liabilities and costs could be material. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and may also dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our company. We may seek acquisitions to expand our access to products and capabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our common stock, which could dilute current stockholder’s ownership interest in our company. The terms of our outstanding notes and warrants, as well as any additional funding we raise in the future could cause extreme dilution to our stockholders. Further, the large number of our shares that may be held in the market may depress the market price of our stock. Our payment of interest or make-whole premiums on the notes under certain circumstances with shares of common stock, the conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes, and the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the sale of the notes, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. In particular, if we 28 Table of Contents issue the approximately 15.9 million shares of common stock we currently have registered for payment of interest, we will have issued nearly twice as many shares as we currently have outstanding. Additional shares of common stock will be issued upon the exercise of other outstanding warrants and options, as well as for awards under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and purchases under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Further, to the extent we determine that we need additional financing and we encounter additional opportunities to raise cash, we would likely sell additional equity or debt securities. Depending on our stock price and market conditions at the time of any capital raise, and the amount of capital we need, such debt or equity securities may be sold at relatively low prices, including prices which are below the market price of our common stock, and may have substantial rights to control us. Stockholders would experience extreme dilution. Other than as set forth in the indenture governing the notes, we do not have any contractual restrictions on our ability to incur debt. Any indebtedness could contain covenants that restrict our operations. Any sales in the public market of the common stock paid as interest or as a make-whole premium, issuable upon conversion of the notes or exercise of warrants, the exercise of outstanding options or the issuance of equity pursuant to our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could also affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. Our common stock has been delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market®. Among other things, delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market® may make it more difficult for investors to trade in our securities and may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. On August 15, 2008, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market® for failure to meet certain of Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. Our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board® under the symbol “VION.” As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to a rule promulgated by the SEC that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may have a materially adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. The fact of our common stock is being quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board® may make it more difficult for investors to trade in our securities, which could lead to further declines in our share price. Our shares being quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board® also makes it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, as we may incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if we were to sell additional securities. The delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market® also made us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. We are party to a registration rights agreement which requires us to use our best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of our registration statement relating to the resale of our convertible senior notes, shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and upon conversion of our outstanding notes by holders of such warrants and notes. We may need to file and make effective amendments and supplements to such registration statement from time to time in the future. If we fail to maintain an effective registration statement through February 15, 2010, we could become subject to certain liquidated damages in the form of additional interest on the principal amount of the notes outstanding, subject to a maximum rate of 8.25% per annum for the duration of such failure until the event giving rise to the additional interest has been cured. 29 Table of Contents Our common stock price has been highly volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • positive or adverse developments with respect to obtaining regulatory approval of our proposed products; • positive or adverse developments with respect to our drug trials; • actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • litigation or threat of litigation; • failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements of new products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our common stock and issuances of common stock to pay interest on our outstanding convertible senior notes; • economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; • limited daily trading volume; and • developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the OTC Bulletin Board® and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to do so in the future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Provisions of our outstanding convertible senior notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our outstanding convertible senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, including a provision requiring an acquirer to assume all of our obligations under the notes and the indenture. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change under the indenture relating to the notes, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents 