Item 1A Risk Factors 16 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2 Properties 23 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 24 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 59 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 59 Item 9B Other Information 59 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 60 Item 11 Executive Compensation 61 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 69 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 71 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 71 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 73 SIGNATURES In this report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms ‘‘we,’’ ‘‘us,’’ ‘‘our,’’ ‘‘the Company’’ and ‘‘Vion’’ refer to Vion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including without limitation statements under ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’’ and ‘‘Business,’’ regarding our financial position, business strategy, and plans and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as ‘‘may,’’ ‘‘will,’’ ‘‘should,’’ ‘‘could,’’ ‘‘potential,’’ ‘‘seek,’’ ‘‘project,’’ ‘‘predict,’’ ‘‘anticipate,’’ ‘‘believe,’’ ‘‘estimate,’’ ‘‘expect,’’ ‘‘intend’’ and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and events to differ significantly. A detailed discussion of risks attendant to the forward-looking statements is included under ‘‘Item 1A - Risk Factors’’. The information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is believed to be current as of the date of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. PART I ITEM 1: Business General We are a development stage pharmaceutical company engaged in the development of therapeutics for the treatment of cancer. We were incorporated in March 1992 as a Delaware corporation and began operations on May 1, 1994. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we spent $16.6 million, $13.8 million and $9.7 million, respectively, on research, development and clinical activities. Our portfolio of potential products consists of two distinct small molecule anticancer agents in clinical development, and additional small molecules in preclinical development. We also have developed a drug delivery technology for the treatment of cancer. ‘Preclinical development’ or ‘preclinical studies’ indicate that the product candidates selected for development are being evaluated for potency, specificity, manufacturability and pharmacologic activity in vitro, or cell culture, and in vivo, or animal models. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a three-phase process. In Phase I, clinical trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the tolerated drug dose, early safety profile, proper scheduling and the pattern of drug distribution, absorption and metabolism. In Phase II, clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine efficacy, dose-response relationships and expanded evidence of safety. In Phase III, large-scale, multi-center, controlled clinical trials are conducted in order to: • provide enough data for statistical proof of safety and efficacy; • compare the experimental therapy to existing therapies; • uncover any unexpected safety problems, such as side-effects; and • generate product labeling. Our product development programs are based on technologies that we license from Yale University (Yale) and other cancer research centers. We have largely engaged in product development with respect to anticancer therapeutics through in-house preclinical and clinical development and through collaboration with academic, research and governmental institutions. As our proposed products advance through trials depending on financial and pharmaceutical market conditions and required resources, we will determine the best method and/or partnership to develop, and eventually market, our products. 2 Products in Clinical Development • Our lead product, Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), is an alkylating (DNA-damaging) agent. Our primary registration strategy for this compound is for the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). A Phase III trial of Cloretazine® in combination with cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) in relapsed AML commenced in March 2005. In January 2006, we announced that we will conduct a pivotal Phase II trial in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. This trial is expected to commence in the second quarter of 2006. In addition to these two trials in AML, Cloretazine® is being evaluated in clinical trials as a single agent in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small cell lung cancer, and adult and pediatric brain tumors, and in combination with temozolomide in advanced hematologic malignancies. Cloretazine® has received two fast track designations from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of: (i) relapsed AML and (ii) elderly poor-risk AML. Cloretazine® has also received orphan drug designation for the treatment of AML in the United States and the European Union. • Our second clinical compound, Triapine®, is a small molecule that in preclinical models inhibits the enzyme ribonucleotide reductase, and therefore prevents the replication of tumor cells by blocking a critical step in DNA synthesis. Intravenous Triapine® is being evaluated in Phase I and Phase II single agent and combination clinical trials sponsored by the National Cancer Institute (NCI). The NCI is also expected to sponsor a Phase I clinical trial of an oral formulation of Triapine® which should be initiated in 2006. Products in Preclinical Development • VNP40541 (formerly called KS119W) is an additional cytotoxic (cell-damaging) compound from the sulfonylhydrazine class. VNP40541 has been demonstrated in preclinical studies to be highly selective for hypoxic (poorly oxygenated) cells which are found in tumors and are often hard to treat with conventional anticancer agents. We plan to file an Investigational New Drug (IND) application and commence a Phase I trial of VNP40541 in 2006. • Heterocyclic hydrazones are anticancer compounds that have demonstrated potent anti-tumor effects in preclinical studies. The mechanisms of action for these compounds are unidentified at this time but appear to be unlike any known commercially available anticancer agents. In September 2005, we entered into an exclusive license for these compounds. We plan to evaluate these compounds in preclinical studies in 2006. Drug Delivery Technology • TAPET® (Tumor Amplified Protein Expression Therapy), our drug delivery system using modified Salmonella bacteria, is designed to deliver anticancer agents directly to solid tumors. In 2006, we will continue to seek a development partner for TAPET®. Overview of Cancer and Treatment Methods Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States, exceeded only by heart disease. In 2005, the American Cancer Society estimated that 1.4 million new cases of cancer would be diagnosed in the United States and 570,280 Americans would die from cancer. Cancer is a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell division and growth resulting in the development of a mass of cells or tumor, as well as the invasion and spreading of these cells to other organs of the body (metastasis). Cancerous tumors can arise in any tissue or organ within the human body and generally cause clinical problems to the patient when the tumor affects the function of that organ or when the tumor spreads to other organs. Cancers which arise in the bone marrow (e.g. acute and chronic leukemias and multiple myeloma) or the lymph nodes (Hodgkin’s disease and lymphomas) spread through the bone marrow and lymphatic systems, affecting the growth of normal blood and lymphatic cells. Cancer is believed to occur as a result of a number of factors, such as genetic predisposition, chemical agents, viruses and radiation. These factors result in genetic changes affecting the ability of cells to regulate their growth and differentiation. 3 The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. A cancer patient often receives treatment with a combination of methods. Surgery and radiation therapy are particularly effective in patients where the disease is localized. The most common method of treating patients with cancer that has spread beyond the primary site is to administer systemic anticancer drugs (chemotherapy). Chemotherapy seeks to damage and kill cancer cells or to interfere with the molecular and cellular processes that control the development, growth and survival of malignant tumor cells. In many cases, chemotherapy consists of the administration of several different drugs in combination. Chemotherapy can cause patient weakness, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, and damage to various organs that can result in loss of normal body functions. The effectiveness of current cancer treatments with respect to any particular patient varies greatly, depending upon the cancer diagnosis and the tolerance of the patient to treatment. Therefore, a significant need exists for new therapies which are more effective and have less toxicity. Our Product Development Programs We are developing several potential products for the treatment of cancer. Two of our small molecule anticancer agents are in human clinical trials, and additional small molecules are in preclinical development. In addition, we are seeking a partner to develop a drug delivery technology. The discussion below sets forth the development status of our product candidates (except as otherwise specifically noted below) as of December 31, 2005. Products in Clinical Development Cloretazine® Cloretazine® is an alkylating agent. Alkylating agents damage DNA, which results in cell death. Alkylating agents are generally known to be among the most highly effective agents in the treatment of cancer. Preclinical data on Cloretazine® showed broad anti-tumor activity in in vivo models. It was curative in certain preclinical leukemia models, including mice bearing certain derivatives of a leukemia cell line that was resistant to standard alkylating agents. Cloretazine® was also active against solid tumor models, including lung, colon, and brain cancer, and melanoma. It was curative in mouse models in which a human glioma (brain tumor) or a mouse colon cancer was implanted and growing under the skin. The drug has been shown in preclinical studies to be capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier with great efficiency. The blood-brain barrier has been a common obstacle in achieving active concentrations of most drugs within the brain. Based on early indications of activity in the trials conducted to date, our primary registration strategy for Cloretazine® is for the treatment of AML, but we also are evaluating it in other hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. Below is a table with a list of all completed, ongoing and planned Cloretazine® clinical trials. 4 Trial Indication Sponsor CommencementDate Status Phase III trial in combination with Ara-C AML, relapsed Vion March 2005 Ongoing Phase II single agent trial AML, elderly poor-risk Vion To be determined Planned Phase II single agent trial Small cell lung cancer Vion September 2005 Ongoing Phase II single agent trial Brain tumors, adult Investigator-sponsored June 2004 Ongoing Phase II single agent trial AML and high-riskmyelodysplastic syndromes Vion March 2004 Ongoing Phase I/II single agent trial Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Vion July 2005 Ongoing Phase I trial Brain tumors, pediatric Investigator-sponsored April 2005 Ongoing Phase I trial in combination with temozolomide Hematologic malignancies Vion October 2004 Ongoing Phase I trial in combination with Ara-C Hematologic malignancies Vion July 2003 Completed Phase I single agent trial Solid tumors Vion February 2003 Completed Phase I single agent trial Hematologic malignancies Vion August 2002 Completed Phase I single agent trial Solid tumors Vion June 2001 Completed In March 2004, we received fast track designation from the FDA for Cloretazine® in relapsed or refractory AML. In October 2005, we received fast track designation for Cloretazine® in elderly poor-risk AML. The FDA’s fast track programs are designed to facilitate the development of new drugs that are intended to treat serious or life-threatening conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. Although fast track status may expedite development and FDA review of an application, there can be no assurance that Cloretazine® will be reviewed more expeditiously for its ‘‘fast track’’ indications than would otherwise have been the case or will be approved promptly, or at all. Further, the FDA could revoke fast track status for Cloretazine®. In October 2004, we received orphan drug designation from the FDA for Cloretazine® in AML in the United States. Orphan drug designation may be granted to products that treat rare diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage or shorten the duration of the FDA review and approval process. The designation may provide eligibility for a seven-year period of market exclusivity for the indication of AML after marketing approval, potential tax credits for research, grant funding for research and development, possibly reduced filing fees for marketing applications, and assistance with the review of clinical trial protocols. In January 2006, we received orphan drug designation from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Cloretazine® in AML in the European Union. Orphan drug status is granted by the European Commission to promote development of drugs to treat rare diseases or conditions. Orphan drug designation in Europe does not convey any advantage or shorten the duration of the EMEA review and approval process. Orphan drug designation in Europe may entitle Cloretazine® to: (i) ten years of market exclusivity for the indication of AML; (ii) protocol assistance from the European Medicines Agency to optimize drug development in preparing a dossier that will meet regulatory requirements; (iii) reduced fees associated with applying for market approval; and (iv) access to European Union research funding. Cloretazine® in Hematologic Malignancies We are conducting a Phase III trial of Cloretazine® in combination with Ara-C in relapsed AML in over 50 clinical sites in North America and Europe. This trial started in March 2005. In February 2005, we reached agreement with the FDA for this Phase III trial on a Special Protocol 5 Assessment (SPA), a procedure by which the FDA provides official evaluation and guidance on proposed protocols for pivotal Phase III clinical trials. In January 2006, we announced that we will conduct an additional pivotal Phase II trial of Cloretazine® as a single agent in elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. Elderly de novo poor-risk AML patients are those elderly patients whose poor-risk AML has not evolved from a prior myelodysplastic syndrome. We plan to start this trial in the second quarter of 2006. We are evaluating Cloretazine® in a Phase II single agent trial in AML and high risk myelodysplastic syndromes that commenced in March 2004, and was amended to accept additional patients in a strata with elderly previously untreated patients in the fall of 2005. We are also evaluating Cloretazine® as a single agent in a Phase I/II trial in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in combination with temozolomide in a Phase I trial in advanced hematologic malignancies. Cloretazine®in Solid Tumors We are conducting a Phase II trial of Cloretazine® as a single agent in small cell lung cancer. This trial started in September 2005. A Phase II trial of Cloretazine® as a single agent in adult brain tumors is ongoing under an investigator’s IND. An additional Phase I trial in pediatric glioma was initiated in April 2005 under an investigator’s IND and continues to accrue patients. Triapine® Triapine® inhibits the enzyme ribonucleotide reductase in preclinical models. Ribonucleotide reductase inhibition is thought to arrest the growth of, or kill, cancer cell lines, by blocking a critical step in DNA synthesis. Inhibition of this enzyme has also been shown in vitro and in vivo to enhance the anti-tumor activity of several standard anticancer agents. We have evaluated an intravenous formulation of Triapine® in five single agent Phase I trials, three single agent Phase II trials, four Phase I combination trials, and two Phase II combination trials. At this time, we are not sponsoring any additional trials of the intravenous formulation of Triapine®. In November 2002, we announced that the NCI’s Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis had approved a collaboration for the clinical development of Triapine®. As part of this collaboration, the NCI’s Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program will sponsor clinical trials of Triapine® to further explore its activity as a single agent or in combination with other agents in patients with cancer. We provide the product used in these trials. In early 2003, we announced that a Clinical Trials Agreement had been executed with the NCI and in January 2004, the first trial opened under NCI sponsorship. An intravenous formulation of Triapine® is being evaluated in Phase I and Phase II combination trials sponsored by the NCI. Data from some of these trials should be available in 2006. Clinical testing of new single agent administration schedules may be possible with the oral form of Triapine®, which to date has been studied in a small number of patients to determine its absorption in the bloodstream following a single dose. We expect that a Phase I trial sponsored by the NCI of an oral formulation of Triapine® will commence in 2006. License Agreement with Beijing Pason Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In October 2003, we entered into a license with Beijing Pason Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Pason) whereby we granted Pason the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and market Triapine® in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao. Products in Preclinical Development VNP40541 VNP40541 (formerly known as KS119W), an additional compound from the sulfonyl hydrazine class, has been demonstrated in preclinical studies to be highly selective for hypoxic (poorly oxygenated) cells which are found in tumors and are often hard to treat with conventional anticancer agents. We are evaluating VNP40541 in preclinical studies and plan to file an IND application and initiate a Phase I trial of this compound in 2006. 6 Heterocyclic Hydrazones Heterocyclic hydrazones are anticancer compounds that have demonstrated potent anti-tumor effects in preclinical studies. The mechanisms of action for these compounds are unidentified at this time but appear to be unlike any commercially available anticancer agents of which we know. In December 2003, we entered into an exclusive research collaboration and option agreement related to these compounds with a group of inventors from the Institute of Pharmacy and the Institute of Medicinal Chemistry and Biochemistry at the University of Innsbruck, and Austria Wirtschaftsservice Gesellschaft m.b.H, a bank specializing in Austrian business promotion. In September 2005, we entered into an exclusive license for these compounds. We plan to evaluate heterocyclic hydrazones in preclinical studies in 2006. Drug Delivery Technology TAPET® (Tumor Amplified Protein Expression Therapy) TAPET® is a proprietary technology that uses genetically-altered Salmonella bacteria to deliver cancer-fighting drugs preferentially to solid tumors. Extensive preclinical studies in in vivo models have shown that TAPET® bacteria migrate to and penetrate throughout solid tumors. Inside the tumors, TAPET® bacteria double in quantity every 30 to 45 minutes, achieving very high bacterial counts, reaching ratios in tumor versus normal tissues of 1000:1. In addition, TAPET® can be genetically engineered to deliver anticancer agents continuously within the tumor. We conducted clinical trials of TAPET® from 1999 to 2002. In 2006, we will continue to seek a partner to assist with future development of TAPET® technology. Other Products and Product Candidates for Conditions Other than Cancer MELASYN® MELASYN® is a patented, synthetic form of melanin that dissolves readily in water. Melanin is a pigment formed by cells in the skin that gives skin its color and protects it from sun damage by absorbing ultraviolet rays. We believe that MELASYN® is the first water-soluble, synthetic version of melanin, making it a potentially useful ingredient for formulation of skin care products and cosmetics. Our MELASYN® patent and technology is licensed from Yale. In March 2004, we entered into a non-exclusive sublicense agreement for MELASYN® with Johnson and Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. The terms of the agreement do not include any upfront or milestone payments. If products including our technology are developed, we will receive a royalty based on sales in countries where we have issued patents. In March 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive sublicense agreement for MELASYN® with B&P Company, Incorporated. The terms of the agreement do not include any upfront or milestone payments. When products including our technology are developed, we receive a royalty based on sales in countries where we have issued patents. Novel Nucleoside Analogs We have licensed patents and patent applications related to a nucleoside analogue, or synthetic molecule, known as ß-L-Fd4C from Yale. ß-L-Fd4C is an antiviral drug capable of inhibiting the replication of the hepatitis B virus (HBV). ß-L-Fd4C may also be useful for the treatment of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In February 2000, we signed a sublicense agreement for ß-L-Fd4C with Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Achillion), a privately-held biopharmaceutical company developing and commercializing innovative antiviral therapies. Under the terms of the sublicense agreement, Achillion will fund the development of ß-L-Fd4C. In return, we received a small equity position in Achillion and could receive milestone payments and royalties based on product revenue. 7 License and Research Agreements Agreements with Yale University Since 1988, we, or predecessors of our company, have entered into a series of agreements under which we have funded research at Yale and licensed inventions from Yale. The license agreements with Yale grant us exclusive licenses to make, use, sell and practice the inventions covered by various patents and patent applications. Each license agreement requires us to pay royalties, and in some cases milestone payments, to Yale. Certain licenses are terminable in the event we do not exercise due diligence in commercializing the licensed technology. Subsequent to entering into a license agreement with Yale in August 1994, we have paid approximately $10.3 million through December 31, 2005 to fund certain research at Yale, including research in the laboratories of Dr. Alan Sartorelli, one of our directors, and Dr. Yung-Chi Cheng, a member of our scientific advisory board. We have agreed to pay an additional $250,000 to support the research activities of Dr. Sartorelli through the first quarter of 2007. Yale has sole discretion to use these funds to conduct research relating to products that it desires to pursue. Additionally, to the extent that such research results in technologies not covered by our license agreements with Yale, we may be unable to utilize such technologies unless we negotiate additional license agreements. Yale/Vion (formerly MelaRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) License Agreement – September 1990 Under a license agreement with Yale dated September 1990, we have a license to a synthetic form of melanin, which we have named MELASYN®. Under the terms of the license agreement, we pay a license fee to Yale based on a percentage of net sales and sublicensing revenues. Yale/Vion (formerly OncoRx, Inc.) License Agreement – August 1994 We are a party to a license agreement with Yale entered into in August 1994 and subsequently amended in five amendments. Under this amended license, Yale granted us a non-transferable worldwide exclusive license to make, have made, use, sell and practice inventions under certain patents and patent applications for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. We also have a non-exclusive license to an additional patent under this amended license. The patents and patent applications under this amended license cover Cloretazine®, Triapine®, KS119 (an analogue of VNP40541), and ß-L-Fd4C. The term of the license is dictated by the expiration of any patents relating to any inventions or, with respect to non-patented inventions or research, 17 years from 1994 (i.e. through 2011). Yale has retained the right to make, use and practice the inventions for non-commercial purposes and, with respect to two of the patents, Yale and its licensees have additional rights. This agreement as amended also provides that if Yale, as a result of its own research, identifies potential commercial opportunities for the licensed inventions, Yale will give us a first option to negotiate a commercial license for the commercial opportunities. Yale is entitled to royalties on sales, if any, of resulting products, sublicensing revenues and, with regard to several patents, milestone payments based on the status of clinical trials and/or regulatory approvals. We have agreed with Yale that we will plan and implement appropriate research and development with respect to commercialization of products based on the licensed inventions. In the event that the agreement is terminated for breach, all rights under licenses previously granted terminate. Accordingly, a default as to one product could affect our rights in other products. In addition, Yale, at its sole option, can terminate any sublicenses that we grant. Pursuant to the original agreement, we issued to Yale 159,304 shares of our common stock and made a payment of $50,000. In June 1997, this license agreement and another license agreement dated December 1995 were amended pursuant to which Yale agreed to reduce certain amounts payable by us in exchange for 150,000 shares of our common stock issued to Yale and valued at $600,000. Yale/Vion (formerly OncoRx, Inc.) License Agreements – December 1995 In December 1995, we entered into a license agreement with Yale pursuant to which we received a non-transferable worldwide exclusive license, expiring over the lives of the patents, to three 8 inventions relating to gene therapy for melanoma. Technology licensed by us under this agreement relates to TAPET®. Pursuant to the license agreement, we paid Yale a $100,000 fee. In December 1995, we entered into another license agreement with Yale pursuant to which we received a non-transferable worldwide exclusive license, expiring over the lives of the patents, to an invention relating to whitening skin. Under the licensing agreements, Yale is entitled to milestone payments based on the status of clinical trials and regulatory approvals. In addition, Yale is entitled to royalties on sales, if any, of resulting products and sublicense revenues. Other Agreements License Agreement with Beijing Pason Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In October 2003, we entered into a license with Pason providing them with the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and market Triapine® in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao (the Pason Territory). The terms of the agreement included an initial payment of $500,000 which we received in November 2003, $4.75 million in potential additional milestone payments, and potential royalty payments of 11% of any Triapine® revenues in the Pason Territory. Pason will fund the preclinical and clinical development necessary for regulatory approval of Triapine® in the Pason Territory. License Agreement with Austrian Inventors and Austria Wirtschaftsservice Gesellschaft m.b.H. In December 2003, we entered into a research collaboration and option agreement for certain novel compounds, heterocyclic hydrazones, with a group of inventors from the Institute of Pharmacy and the Institute of Medical Chemistry and Biochemistry at the University of Innsbruck, and Austria Wirtschaftsservice Gesellschaft m.b.H, a bank specializing in Austrian business promotion. In December 2003, we made an initial payment of $25,000 to enter into the agreement. In September 2005, we entered into an exclusive license for these compounds and made an additional payment of $37,500. Under this license agreement, we must make milestone payments based on the progress of product development, and pay royalties based on product revenues. Consulting Agreement with Gemin X, Inc. In January 2004, we entered into a consulting agreement with Gemin X, Inc. (Gemin X), a privately-held company developing oncology therapeutics. Under this agreement, our chief scientific officer, Dr. Terrence Doyle, renders consulting services to Gemin X. Gemin X pays us, based on an hourly rate, for up to 80% of Dr. Doyle's time per year. This agreement has been extended through March 31, 2006, which is Dr. Doyle’s planned retirement date. We do not anticipate extending this agreement beyond that date. Competition Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and based on scientific and technological factors, the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability to finance and commercialize technological developments, and the ability to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing drugs. Numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have publicly announced their intention to develop drugs that target the replication of tumor cells including, in some instances, agents to be used for the treatment of AML or alkylating agents like our compound Cloretazine®, or agents that target ribonucleotide reductase like our compound Triapine®. These companies include, but are not limited to Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bioenvision, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Chiron Corporation, Eli Lilly and Co., Genentech Inc., Genzyme Corporation, ImClone Systems Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Lorus Therapeutics Inc., MGI Pharma, Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Pharmion Corp., Schering-Plough Corporation and SGX Pharmacuticals, Inc. Our competitors may have substantially 9 greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market products. In addition, many of these companies have extensive experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials, and in obtaining regulatory approvals. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly and in developing and commercializing products that are safer and more effective than those that we propose to develop. The existence of these products, other products or treatments of which we are not aware or products or treatments that may be developed in the future may adversely affect the marketability of our products by rendering them less competitive or obsolete. These companies, as well as academic institutions, governmental agencies and private research organizations, also compete with us in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities, and recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel and consultants. The timing of market introduction of our potential products or of the products of others will be an important competitive factor. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete preclinical testing, clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, and supply commercial quantities to market will influence our ability to bring a product to market. In addition, we may apply for orphan drug designation by the FDA for our proposed products. To the extent that a competitor of ours develops and receives orphan drug designation and marketing approval for a drug to treat the same indication prior to us, we may be precluded from marketing our product for a period of seven years. Patents, Licenses and Trade Secrets Our policy is to protect our technology by, among other means, filing patent applications for technology that we consider important to the development of our business. We intend to file additional patent applications, when appropriate, relating to new developments or improvements in our technology and other specific products that we develop. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovations, as well as patents we have licensed or may license from other parties to develop and maintain our competitive position. In connection with our license agreement with Yale dated August 1994, we are the exclusive licensee, subject to certain rights retained by Yale, of a number of issued patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications relating to: • Cloretazine®, KS119 (an analogue of VNP40541), and other compounds in the sulfonylhydrazine class; • Triapine® and other ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors; and • ß-L-Fd4C, its composition and its use for the treatment of HBV and HIV infections, and its use in combination with other anti-AIDS drugs. We are also the exclusive licensee of Yale of one issued U.S. and a number of foreign patents and pending patent applications relating to synthetic melanin and methods for using synthetic melanin, such as for sunscreen or self-tanning agents relevant to our MELASYN® technology. Pursuant to our license agreement with Yale dated December 1995, we are the exclusive licensee of a number of issued patents and pending patent applications, U.S. and foreign, relating to our TAPET® technology, which include claims for methods of diagnosing and/or treating various solid tumor cancers, including melanoma, lung cancer, breast cancer and colon cancer. We also have rights, either by license and/or by assignment, to issued patents and pending patent applications, U.S. and foreign, relating to our TAPET® technology. In addition, we have pending a number of U.S. provisional and non-provisional patent applications, an international patent application and a number of foreign patent applications related to this technology. We or our licensors are prosecuting the patent applications related to products we license both with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) and various foreign patent agencies, but we do not know whether any of our applications will result in the issuance of any patents or, whether any issued patent will provide significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented or invalidated. During 10 the course of patent prosecution, patent applications are evaluated for, among other things, utility, novelty, non-obviousness, written description and enablement. The PTO may require that the claims of an initially filed patent application be amended if it is determined that the scope of the claims include subject matter that is not useful, novel, non-obvious, described adequately or enabled. Furthermore, in certain instances, the practice of a patentable invention may require a license from the holder of dominant patent rights. We cannot predict whether our patent applications or our competitors' patent applications will result in valid patents being issued. An issued patent is entitled to a presumption of validity. The presumption may be challenged in litigation; a court could find any patent of ours or of our competitors invalid and/or unenforceable. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, may also be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Government Regulation Overview. Regulation by state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development of our anticancer products, and will be a significant factor in manufacturing and marketing of these products, if they are successfully developed and approved for sale. All of our products will require regulatory clearances or approvals prior to commercialization. In particular, drugs, biological agents and medical devices are subject to rigorous testing and other approval requirements by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act and its regulations, as well as by similar health authorities in foreign countries. Various federal statutes and regulations also govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, packaging, advertising, storage, registration, listing and recordkeeping related to marketing of such products. Regulatory approval often takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Approval time also depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. We cannot be certain that any required FDA or other regulatory approval will be granted or, if granted, will not be withdrawn. The development of a therapeutic drug typically first requires preclinical testing. Preclinical development of therapeutic drugs and biological agents is generally conducted in the laboratory to evaluate the safety and the potential efficacy of a compound by relevant in vitro and in vivo testing. When a product is tested prospectively to determine its safety for purposes of obtaining FDA approvals or clearances, such testing must be performed in accordance with good laboratory practices for non-clinical studies. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. The IND must become effective, the study must be approved by an institutional review board, and informed consent must be obtained from the clinical subjects, before human clinical trials can begin. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a three-phase process. In Phase I, clinical trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the tolerated drug dose, early safety profile, proper scheduling and the pattern of drug distribution, absorption and metabolism. In Phase II, clinical trials are conducted with groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease in order to determine efficacy, dose-response relationships and expanded evidence of safety. In Phase III, large-scale, multi-center, controlled clinical trials are conducted in order to: • provide enough data for statistical proof of safety and efficacy; • compare the experimental therapy to existing therapies; • uncover any unexpected safety problems, such as side-effects; and • generate product labeling. In the case of drugs for cancer and other life-threatening diseases, the initial human testing is generally conducted in patients rather than in healthy volunteers. 11 Tests of our product candidates and human clinical trials may be delayed or terminated due to factors such as unfavorable results or insufficient patient enrollment. Furthermore, the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds. Delays in tests and trials may have a material adverse effect on our business. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing are submitted to the FDA either as part of a new drug application (NDA) for drugs, or a biologics license application (BLA) for biologics, for approval to commence commercial distribution. For a biologic drug, the manufacturer generally must also obtain approval of an establishment license application. In responding to an NDA or BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines that the application does not satisfy its regulatory approval criteria. It may take several years to obtain approval after submission of an NDA or BLA, although approval is not assured. The FDA also normally conducts a pre-approval inspection and other occasional inspections of an applicant's facilities to ensure compliance with current good manufacturing practices. Further, stringent FDA regulatory requirements continue after a product is approved for marketing, and changes to products or labeling can require additional approvals. If any of our products is approved for marketing, we will be subject to stringent post-marketing requirements. We also will be subject to widely varying foreign regulations governing clinical trials and pharmaceutical sales. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained before marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We intend, to the extent possible, to rely on foreign licensees to obtain regulatory approval to market our products in foreign countries. In October 2004, we received orphan drug designation for Cloretazine® in AML. Under the Orphan Drug Act, a sponsor may obtain designation by the FDA of a drug or biologic as an ‘orphan’ drug for a particular indication. Orphan drug designation is granted to drugs for rare diseases or conditions, including many cancers, with a prevalence of less than 200,000 cases in the United States. The sponsor of a drug that has obtained orphan drug designation and which is the first to obtain approval of a marketing application for such drug, which approval cannot be assured, is entitled to marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years for the designated indication. This means that no other company can market the same orphan drug for the same indication approved by the FDA for seven years after approval unless such company proves its drug is clinically superior or the approved orphan drug marketer cannot supply demand for the drug. Legislation is periodically considered that could significantly affect the Orphan Drug law. We intend to seek additional orphan drug designations for our products where appropriate. There can be no assurance that future changes to the Orphan Drug Act would not diminish the value of any orphan drug designation obtained by us. FDA regulatory procedures established in 1988 are intended to speed further the availability of new drugs intended to treat life-threatening and severely debilitating illnesses. These procedures provide for early and continuous consultation with the FDA regarding preclinical and clinical studies necessary to gain marketing approval. This regulatory framework also provides that if Phase I results demonstrate potential, Phase II clinical trials may be designed that obviate the need for lengthy, expensive Phase III testing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, approval may be denied by the FDA or traditional Phase III studies may be required. The FDA may also seek our agreement to perform post-approval Phase IV studies, which confirm product safety and efficacy. In January 2006, we received orphan drug designation for Cloretazine® for the treatment of AML in Europe. Orphan drug status is granted by the European Commission to promote development of drugs to treat rare diseases or conditions. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage or shorten the duration of the EMEA review and approval process. Orphan drug designation may entitle Cloretazine® to: (i) ten years of market exclusivity for the indication of AML; (ii) protocol assistance from the European Medicines Agency to optimize drug development in preparing a dossier that will meet regulatory requirements; (iii) reduced fees associated with applying for market approval; and (iv) access to European Union research funding. 12 In addition to regulations relating to drug development, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. These laws also impose strict liability for the costs of cleaning up, and for damages resulting from, sites of past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances and materials for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties operated by us and at off-site locations where we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for our facilities to comply with current and future environmental laws. To date, we have not incurred significant costs and are not aware of any significant liabilities associated with our compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. However, environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and may face large capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws. We have limited capital and are uncertain whether we will be able to pay for significantly large capital expenditures. Also, future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. All of our operations are performed under strict environmental and health safety controls consistent with OSHA, EPA and NRC regulations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to control all health and safety problems. If we cannot control those problems, we may be held liable and may be required to pay the costs of remediation. These liabilities and costs could be material. Manufacturing and Marketing We do not have experience in manufacturing or marketing products and have not yet commercially introduced any products. We do not currently have the resources to manufacture or market on a commercial scale any products that we develop. We currently use third parties to manufacture limited quantities of our products for use in clinical activities. If our products are approved for sale by regulatory authorities, we will need to develop manufacturing and marketing capability or make arrangements with third parties to manufacture, distribute and sell our products. In the event we decide to establish a manufacturing and distribution facility or a marketing and sales force, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and retain additional personnel. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 40 full-time employees. 13 Executive Officers and Directors The following table contains the names and positions of our executive officers and directors: Name Position Alan Kessman Chief Executive Officer and Director Howard B. Johnson President and Chief Financial Officer Ann Cahill Vice President of Clinical Development Meghan Fitzgerald Vice President and Chief Business Officer Ivan King Vice President of Research and Development Karen Schmedlin Vice President of Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Secretary Terrence W. Doyle, Ph.D.(4) Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer William Miller(1,2,3) Director George Bickerstaff(1,2) Director Stephen K. Carter, M.D.(3) Director Alan C. Sartorelli, Ph.D.(3) Director Mario Sznol, M.D Director Gary Willis(1,2) Director (1) Member of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. (2) Member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. (3) Member of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. (4) Dr. Doyle has informed us of his plan to retire as of March 31, 2006. Alan Kessman, age 59, has been our Chief Executive Officer since January 1999 and has served on our Board of Directors since October 1998. Mr. Kessman also served as our President from April 1999 to January 2004. Mr. Kessman is a partner of PS Capital LLC, an international investment and management advisor. From 1983 to 1998, Mr. Kessman was chairman, chief executive officer and president of Executone Information Systems, Inc., a developer and marketer of voice and data communications systems. Howard B. Johnson, age 46, has been our President since January 2004 and our Chief Financial Officer since March 2002. Mr. Johnson was a vice president and a consultant for Nutrition 21, Inc., a nutri-ceutical company, from November 2001 until March 2002. From May 1999 until February 2001, Mr. Johnson was chief financial officer of IBS Interactive, Inc. (now Digital Fusion, Inc.), an information technology services company. Mr. Johnson founded and from 1996 to 1999 was chairman and chief executive officer of MedWorks Corporation, a privately held medical device company. From 1983 to 1993, Mr. Johnson was an investment banker at PaineWebber Group, Inc. Ann Lee Cahill, age 45, has been our Vice President of Clinical Development since October 2004. Ms. Cahill was our Senior Director of Clinical Affairs from October 2003 to October 2004 and Director of Clinical Affairs from January 2002 to October 2003. From 1997 to 2002, Ms. Cahill was a member of the project management group of Schering-Plough Corporation, including leadership roles in clinical affairs for hepatitis and medical oncology. From 1985 to 1997, Ms. Cahill was a physician associate in a medical oncology practice. Meghan Fitzgerald, age 35, has been our Vice President and Chief Business Officer since January 2006. From 2005 to January 2006, Ms. Fitzgerald was Senior Director of Strategic Planning and Business Development and from 2001 to 2005 World Wide Marketing Director of Life Cycle Management for Pfizer Human Health. From 1997-2001 Ms. Fitzgerald held marketing positions at Merck, Forest Labs and Sanofi-Synthelabo. Prior to 1997, Ms. Fitzgerald was a registered nurse. Ivan King, Ph.D., age 50, has been our Vice President of Research and Development since January 2004. Dr. King was our Vice President of Research from July 1998 to January 2004, Senior Director of Biology from April 1997 to July 1998 and Director of Biology from October 1995 to April 1997. From 1990 to 1995, Dr. King was a section leader in the department of tumor biology at 14 Schering-Plough Research Institute in charge of the cell biology and in vivo biology groups where he was responsible for identifying targets, developing high throughput assays, evaluating in vitro and in vivo activities of drug candidates and recommending candidates for clinical development. Dr. King’s first industrial position was as a senior research scientist at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Karen Schmedlin, age 43, has been our Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer since March 8, 2006 and our Secretary since April 2001. Ms. Schmedlin was our Controller from October 2000 to March 2006. From 1990 to 2000, Ms. Schmedlin held various finance and marketing positions at Executone Information Systems, Inc., a developer and marketer of voice and data communications systems, including director of marketing operations, division controller and manager of financial reporting. From 1984 to 1990, Ms. Schmedlin was an auditor with Arthur Andersen & Co. Terrence W. Doyle, Ph.D., age 63, has been our Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, Dr. Doyle was our Vice President of Research and Development since the merger with OncoRx, Inc. and served in the same capacity for OncoRx, Inc. from January 1994 until the merger. From 1967 to 1993, Dr. Doyle was an employee of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, including from 1990 to 1993 an executive director with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Dr. Doyle is the original holder of 49 U.S. patents for anti-infective, anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor agents and the author of over 175 published research articles and abstracts on cancer chemotherapy. Dr. Doyle has informed the Company that his planned retirement date is March 31, 2006. William R. Miller, age 77, has been Chairman of our Board since April 1995. From February 1995 until April 1995, Mr. Miller was Chairman of the Board of OncoRx, Inc., which merged into the Company (then known as MelaRx, Inc.) in April 1995. Mr. Miller is currently a director of ImClone Systems, Inc., a biotechnology company. From 1964 until his retirement in 1991, Mr. Miller was employed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in various positions, including vice chairman of the board commencing in 1985. George Bickerstaff, age 50, has been a director since June 2005. Mr. Bickerstaff is a director of Oracle Healthcare Acquisition Corp, a blank check company. Mr. Bickerstaff is Managing Director of CRT Capital Group LLC, an investment banking company, since June 2005. From October 2000 to May 2004, Mr. Bickerstaff held various positions with Novartis, including chief financial officer of Novartis Pharma AG. From 1998 to September 2000, Mr. Bickerstaff held senior finance and operating roles in venture-funded businesses and, prior to that, held various financial positions with the Dun and Bradstreet Corporation, including Chief Financial Officer of IMS Healthcare. Stephen K. Carter, M.D., age 68, has been a director since 2001. Dr. Carter is a director of Cytogen Corp., Alfacell Corp., Tapestry Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Emisphere Technologies Inc. (each a biotechnology company). From 1998 to 2000, Dr. Carter was senior vice president, clinical and regulatory affairs of SUGEN, Inc. (subsequently acquired by Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc.). From 1995 to 1996, Dr. Carter was senior vice president, research and development with Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and from 1982 to 1995 held various positions with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, including senior vice president, worldwide clinical research and development. Alan C. Sartorelli, Ph.D., age 74, has been a director since 1995. Dr. Sartorelli has been an Alfred Gilman Professor of Pharmacology at Yale University School of Medicine since 1967 and Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board since April 1995. Dr. Sartorelli was Chairman of the OncoRx, Inc. Scientific Advisory Board from May 1993 to April 1995 and director of Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center from 1984 to 1993. Mario Sznol, M.D., age 48, has been a director since October 2004. Dr. Sznol is an associate professor of medicine at Yale University School of Medicine since October 2004. Dr. Sznol was our vice president of clinical affairs from September 1999 to October 2004. From 1994 to 1999, Dr. Sznol served as head of the Biologics Evaluation Section, Investigational Drug Branch, Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis of the National Cancer Institute, or NCI, an institute of the National Institutes of Health. Gary Willis, age 60, has been a director since June 2005. Mr. Willis is a director of Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Benthos Corporation and Plug Power Inc. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Willis was Chairman, 15 President and Chief Executive Officer of the Zygo Corporation, a developer and marketer of optical systems and components. From 1984 to 1990, Mr. Willis was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Foxboro Company, a supplier of instruments, systems, and services for industrial process automation. Our directors are elected annually to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors shall have been duly elected and shall qualify. Our executive officers are elected by the board annually and serve for such period or until their earlier resignation or removal by the board. Available Information The following information can be found on our website at http://www.vionpharm.com or may be obtained free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations Department at (203) 498-4210 or by sending an e-mail message to info@vionpharm.com: • our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • our policies related to corporate governance, including the charter for the Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, our code of ethics and business conduct applying to our directors, officers and employees, and our code of ethics applying to our chief executive officer and senior financial officials; and • the charter of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘‘Risk Factors’’ below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. An investment in our securities is risky. Prior to making a decision about investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the specific risks discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue or complete our product development. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund operations and complete our product development. As of December 31, 2005, we had $52.8 million in cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations and continue our product development. We will not have an approved and marketable product for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to have sufficient capital to fund our operations in 2007 and beyond. We may not get funding when we need it or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate our research and development activities, clinical studies or future operations. We might have to license our technology to others. This could result in sharing revenues which we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: • the progress, timing and scope of our product development programs; • the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing or build manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities; • the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships; and • our partners’ commitment of time and resource to the development of our products. We have limited access to the capital markets and, if we can raise additional funding, stockholders may experience extreme dilution. We have limited access to the capital markets to raise capital. The capital markets have been unpredictable in the past, especially for drug development companies and unprofitable companies such as ours. In addition, it is difficult to raise capital under current market conditions. The amount of capital that a company such as ours is able to raise often depends on variables that are beyond our control, such as the share price of our stock and its trading volume. As a result, we may not be able to secure financing on terms attractive to us, or at all. If we are able to consummate a financing arrangement, the amount raised may not be sufficient to meet our future needs. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, our business, including our technology licenses, relationships with key suppliers, results of operations, financial condition and our continued viability will be materially adversely affected. To the extent we encounter additional opportunities to raise cash, we would likely sell additional equity or debt securities. Due to our current stock price and market conditions, and the amount of capital we need, any such debt or equity securities are likely to be sold at relatively low prices, including prices which are below the market prices of our stock, and may have substantial rights to control the Company. For example, in our private placement in June 2003, shares of common stock were sold at $1.30 per share which was approximately 64% of market price at the time. Stockholders are likely to experience extreme dilution as well as subordination of their rights. We do not have any contractual restrictions on our ability to incur debt. Any indebtedness could contain covenants that restrict our operations. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred losses since inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $149.8 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research, development and clinical trials of product candidates. We expect to continue to operate at a net loss for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct clinical trials and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our future profitability depends on our receiving regulatory approval of our product candidates and our ability to successfully manufacture and market approved drugs. The extent of our future losses and the timing of our profitability are highly uncertain. If we do not obtain regulatory approval for our products, we will not be able to sell our products and the value of our company and our financial results will be harmed. We cannot sell or market our drugs without regulatory approval. If we cannot obtain regulatory approval for our products, the value of our company and our financial results will be harmed. In the 17 United States, we must obtain approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for each drug that we intend to sell. The current status of our potential products is as follows: • Cloretazine® is being evaluated in five clinical trials sponsored by us including a Phase III trial in relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia in combination with Ara-C, a Phase II trial as a single agent in small cell lung cancer, a Phase I/II trial in refractory or relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a Phase II trial in acute myelogenous leukemia and high-risk myelodysplasia, and a Phase I trial in combination with temozolomide, as well as two investigator-sponsored trials in pediatric and adult brain tumors; • The National Cancer Institute is sponsoring Phase I and Phase II trials of Triapine® as a single agent and in combination with standard chemotherapies; and • VNP40541 and heterocyclic hydrazones are being evaluated in preclinical studies. If and when we complete the several phases of clinical testing for each drug candidate, we will submit our test results to the FDA. FDA review may generally take up to two years and approval is not assured. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed outside the United States. A delay in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates will also have a material adverse effect on our business. If our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products. We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval for our products. We need to conduct human clinical trials. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results. We would need to reevaluate any drug that did not test favorably and either alter the drug or dose, or abandon the drug development project. In such circumstances, we would not be able to obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if ever. Factors that can cause delay or termination in our clinical trials include: • slow patient enrollment; • long treatment time required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and • lack of sufficient funds. If the testing or use of our potential products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products. These risks are particularly inherent in human trials of our proposed products. Unacceptable side effects may be discovered during preclinical and clinical testing of one or more of our potential products. Side effects and other liability risks could give rise to viable product liability claims against us. While we have obtained insurance coverage for patients enrolled in clinical trials, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities and we may need additional insurance coverage for expanded clinical trials and commercial activity. As a result, product liability claims, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the side effects are determined to be unacceptable, we will not be able to commercialize our products. 18 If we are found to be infringing on patents or trade secrets owned by others, we may be forced to cease or alter our drug development efforts, obtain a license to continue the development or sale of our products, and/or pay damages. Our manufacturing processes and potential products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others, or the trade secrets of those persons and entities. As the drug development industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our processes and potential products may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or trade secrets of others. These other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or process. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to conduct clinical tests, manufacture or market the affected product or use the affected process. Required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and the results of litigation are uncertain. If we become involved in litigation or other proceedings, it could consume a substantial portion of our financial resources and the efforts of our personnel. We rely on confidentiality agreements to protect our trade secrets. If these agreements are breached by our employees or other parties, our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. We rely on trade secrets that we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and other parties. If these agreements are breached, our competitors may obtain and use our trade secrets to gain a competitive advantage over us. We may not have any remedies against our competitors and any remedies that may be available to us may not be adequate to protect our business and compensate us for the damaging disclosure. In addition, we may have to expend resources to protect our interests from possible infringement by others. If we fail to recruit and retain key personnel, our research and development programs may be delayed. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly, Alan Kessman, our chief executive officer and director; Howard Johnson, our president and chief financial officer; Ann Lee Cahill, our vice president, clinical development; Ivan King, Ph.D., our vice president, research and development; and Meghan Fitzgerald, our vice president and chief business officer. There is intense competition in the drug development industry for qualified scientific and technical personnel. Since our business is very technical and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business, particularly in light of our need to raise substantial additional financing in order to continue our operations in 2007 and beyond. We have no key man insurance policies on any of the officers listed above and we only have an employment agreement with Mr. Kessman. If we lose the services of our management and scientific personnel or fail to recruit other scientific and technical personnel, our research and product development programs will be significantly and detrimentally affected. We face intense competition in the market for anticancer products, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. Numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have publicly announced their intention to develop drugs that target the replication of tumor cells including, in some instances, the development of agents which treat AML and are alkylating agents similar to our compound Cloretazine® and agents which target ribonucleotide reductase similar to our compound Triapine®. These companies include, but are not limited to Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bioenvision, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Chiron Corporation, Eli Lilly and Co., Genentech Inc., Genzyme Corporation, ImClone Systems Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Lorus Therapeutics Inc., MGI Pharma, Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Pharmion Corp., Schering-Plough Corporation and SGX Pharmacuticals, Inc. These and other large pharmaceutical companies have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do and have substantially greater 19 experience in undertaking preclinical and clinical testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In addition, our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly than us and in developing and commercializing products that are safer and more effective than those that we propose to develop. The existence of these products, other products or treatments of which we are not aware or products or treatments that may be developed in the future may adversely affect the marketability of our products by rendering them less competitive or obsolete. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. If our corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others do not conduct activities in accordance with our arrangements, our research and development efforts may be delayed. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products entails entering into various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others. We currently depend on the following third parties: • The National Cancer Institute (NCI) with respect to clinical development of Triapine® in Phase I and Phase II single agent and combination trials; • Yale University (Yale) for collaborative research and for technologies that are licensed by them to us; • Beijing Pason Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the development of Triapine® in the People’s Republic of China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan; • Duke University Comprehensive Cancer Center for clinical development of Cloretazine® in adult patients with recurrent gliomas (brain cancer) under an investigator’s IND; • The Pediatric Brain Tumor Consortium (PBTC) for clinical development of Cloretazine® in pediatric brain tumors under an investigator’s IND. • Healthcare facilities in the United States and other countries to perform human clinical trials of our products; • Clinical research organizations in the United States and other countries to monitor and collect data related to human clinical trials; and • Contract manufacturers to produce our products for use in preclinical and clinical activities. If the third parties do not conduct activities in accordance with the arrangements we have with them, our research and development efforts may be delayed. We may also rely on other collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals and to manufacture and market our products. The amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities by these other parties may not be within our control. If Yale does not conduct research relating to products we would like to pursue, we may never realize any benefits from our funding provided to Yale. Through December 31, 2005, we have paid approximately $10.3 million to Yale for research funding. We have agreed to pay an additional $250,000 to support the research activities of one of our directors, an affiliate of Yale, through March 31, 2007. We may continue to support certain research projects at Yale. We generally do not have the right to control the research that Yale is conducting with our funding, and our funds may not be used to conduct research relating to products that we would like to pursue. Additionally, if the research being conducted by Yale results in technologies that Yale has not already licensed or agreed to license to us, we may need to negotiate additional license agreements or we may be unable to utilize those technologies. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, we currently lack the ability and resources to commercialize the products. If our products are approved for sale by regulatory authorities, we will need to develop manufacturing and marketing capability or make arrangements with third parties to manufacture, 20 distribute and sell our products for commercial use. We do not currently have arrangements for manufacturing or marketing products on a commercial basis. If environmental laws become stricter in the future, we may face large capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to expend to comply with comprehensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We must comply with environmental laws that govern, among other things, all emissions, waste water discharge and solid and hazardous waste disposal, and the remediation of contamination associated with generation, handling and disposal activities. To date, we have not incurred significant costs and are not aware of any significant liabilities associated with our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and may face large capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws. We have limited capital and are uncertain whether we will be able to pay for significantly large capital expenditures. Also, future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. All of our operations are performed under strict environmental and health safety controls consistent with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to control all health and safety problems. If we cannot control those problems, we may be held liable and may be required to pay the costs of remediation. These liabilities and costs could be material. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and may also dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our company. Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities, and we may seek acquisitions to do so. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our stock, which could dilute current stockholder’s ownership interest in our company. We rely on third party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates. If these third party manufacturers fail to manufacture product candidates of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at acceptable costs, development and commercialization of our products could be delayed. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we have no experience in the commercial manufacturing of drugs or in designing drug manufacturing processes. We have contracted with third party 21 manufacturers to produce our product candidates for clinical trials. We have limited supplies of our product candidates for clinical trials. If our supplies are damaged or destroyed, either during storage or shipping or otherwise, our clinical trials may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to rely on third party contract manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute commercial quantities of our product candidates. We will also rely on our third party manufacturing partners to work with us to complete the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control, or CMC, section of any NDAs or other marketing approval application we may file. Contract manufacturers are obliged to operate in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs or to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical trials and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. Changing contract manufacturers may be difficult, and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated cGMPs. Such re-validation may be costly and time-consuming. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly, if at all. Either of these factors could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or cause a decline in potential product revenues. Drug manufacturers are subject to on-going, periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third party contractors, we do not have control over our third party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant market approval of drugs, delays, suspension of clinical trials, withdrawal of approvals, seizures, detentions or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities by third party manufacturers for preclinical and clinical trials. In order to obtain marketing approval for any of these product candidates, we will need to enter into long-term supply agreements with our existing or new third party manufacturers and demonstrate that we can manufacture sufficient quantities for commercial sale. Our third party manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity or apply at commercial scale the current manufacturing process for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. This may require seeking out additional manufacturing partners who may have different equipment requiring additional validation studies, which the relevant government regulator must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure of our third party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM. If the price of our common stock declines below $1.00 per share, we may fail to meet Nasdaq’s maintenance criteria, which may result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM. In such the event of delisting, trading, if any, in our common stock may then continue to be conducted in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the 22 electronic bulletin board and the ‘‘pink sheets’’. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to a Rule promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such Rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a materially adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM will also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register shares of our common stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock and raise additional capital. We would also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws to sell equity if we are delisted. The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to our stockholders may allow our Board and management to deter a potential acquisition in which the Board and management are to be replaced. We have in place a stockholder rights plan, or ‘‘poison pill’’, which enables our board of directors to issue rights to purchase common stock when someone acquires 20% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of the plan, anyone wishing to take over the company would most likely be forced to negotiate a transaction with our Board and management in order not to trigger the pill. The need to negotiate with the Board or management could frustrate a proposed takeover particularly where the Board and management wish to remain entrenched. This would prevent our stockholders from participating in a takeover or tender offer, which might be of substantial value to them. The large number of our shares that may be held in the market may depress the market price of our stock and could result in substantial dilution to the holders of our shares of common stock. Sale or issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. It may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing. As of March 1, 2006, we had outstanding warrants to purchase 9,198,971 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.20 to $3.25 per share. All such shares have been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and will be freely tradable when issued upon exercise of the warrants. In addition, as of March 1, 2006, there were 4,720,480 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options granted by us. We may also grant awards under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan to purchase up to an additional 5,708,738 shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 