Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, any one of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. You should read and carefully consider these risk factors, and the entirety of this report, before you invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business Our performance may be impacted by general economic conditions and an economic downturn. Recessionary pressures from an overall decline in U.S. economic activity could adversely impact our results of operations. Economic uncertainty may reduce consumer spending and could result in increased pressure from competitors or customers to reduce the prices of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices, which could lower revenues and profitability. Instability in the financial markets may impact our ability or increase the cost to enter into new credit agreements in the future. Additionally, it may weaken the ability of customers, suppliers, distributors, banks, insurance companies and other business partners to perform in the normal course of business, which could expose us to losses or disrupt supply of inputs used to conduct our business. If one or more key business partners fail to perform as expected or contracted, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We may incur significant future expenses due to the implementation of our business strategy. We strive to achieve our long-term vision of being a leading marketer and manufacturer of healthy/natural and indulgent specialty snack food brands. Such action is subject to the substantial risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the implementation of a business strategy. If we are unsuccessful in developing, acquiring and/or licensing new brands, and increasing distribution and sales volume of our existing products, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Even if we are successful, this business strategy may require us to incur substantial additional expenses, including advertising and promotional costs, “slotting” expenses (i.e., the cost of obtaining shelf or freezer space in certain grocery stores), and integration costs of any future acquisitions. We also may be unsuccessful at integrating any future acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain the additional financing we need to implement our business strategy. A significant element of our business strategy is the development, acquisition and/or licensing of innovative specialty food brands, for the purpose of expanding, complementing and/or diversifying our business. In connection with our previous acquisitions, we borrowed funds or assumed additional indebtedness in order to satisfy a substantial portion of the consideration required to be paid by us. We may, in the future, require additional third party financing (debt or equity) as a result of any future operating losses, in connection with the expansion of our business through non-acquisition means, in connection with any additional acquisitions 8 Table of Contents completed by us, or to provide working capital for general corporate purposes. Third party financing may not be available when required or, if available, may not be on terms attractive to us. Any third party financing obtained by us may result in dilution of the equity interests of our shareholders. We expect some of our future growth to be derived in part, from acquisitions, but our acquisition strategy may not be successful, or we may not be successful integrating acquisitions. An element of our business strategy is the pursuit of selected strategic acquisition opportunities for the purpose of expanding, complementing and/or diversifying our business. We may not be able to identify, finance and complete successful acquisitions on acceptable terms. Any future acquisitions could divert management’s attention from our daily operations and otherwise require additional management, operational and financial resources. Moreover, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired companies or their management teams into our operating structure, retain management teams of acquired companies on a long-term basis, or operate acquired companies profitably. Acquisitions may also involve a number of other risks, including adverse short-term effects on our operating results, dependence on retaining key personnel and customers, and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. We are subject to ongoing financial covenants under our main credit facility, and if we fail to meet those covenants or otherwise default on our credit facility, our lender may accelerate all unpaid amounts, including interest. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount of $26.8 million. Our credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association (“U.S. Bank”) is secured by substantially all of our assets. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our subsidiaries. We are required to comply with certain financial covenants pursuant to the U.S. Bank Credit Agreement so long as borrowings from U.S. Bank remain outstanding. Should we be in default under any of such covenants, U.S. Bank shall have the right, upon written notice and after the expiration of any applicable period during which such default may be cured, to demand immediate payment of all of the then unpaid principal and accrued but unpaid interest under the Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all covenants of the Credit Agreement. As we execute our business strategy, we may not be able to remain in compliance with our financial covenants. Any acceleration of the borrowings under the Credit Agreement prior to the applicable maturity dates could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may incur losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us or any product recalls we have to make. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such hazards could result from: tampering by unauthorized third parties; product contamination (such as listeria, e-coli, and salmonella) or spoilage; the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, and other agents; residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases; or improperly formulated products. As a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we may be subjected to various product liability claims. The product liability and product recall insurance maintained by us may not be adequate to cover any loss or exposure for product liability, and such insurance may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Any product liability claim not fully covered by insurance, as well as any adverse publicity from a product liability claim or product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Newly adopted governmental regulations could increase our costs or liabilities or impact the sale of our products. The food industry is highly regulated and subject to change. New or increased government regulation of the food industry, including areas related to production processes, product quality, packaging, labeling, marketing, storage and distribution, and labor unions, could adversely impact our operating results by increasing production costs or restricting methods of operation and distribution. These regulations may address food industry or society factors, such as obesity, nutritional concerns and diet trends. Sales of our products could be materially and adversely affected if new laws or regulations are passed that require us to alter the taste or composition of our products or impose other obligations on us. 9 Table of Contents Concerns with the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients could cause customers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if customers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients. Negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from one product and one customer. In 2011, 41% of our net revenues were attributable to our frozen products segment, the majority of which is attributable to Rader Farms®/Kirkland® co-branded frozen berry product sales to Costco. Overall, Costco accounted for 30% of our 2011 net revenues. The remainder of our net revenues are derived from sales to a limited number of additional customers, either grocery chains or regional distributors, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for 2011. A decision by any major customer to cease or substantially reduce its purchases, or a decrease in the popularity of frozen berries during any year, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We depend on a license agreement for the right to sell our T.G.I. Friday’s® brand. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 28% of our net revenues were attributable to the T.G.I. Friday’s® brand products, which are manufactured and sold by us pursuant to a license agreement with T.G.I. Friday’s Inc. that expires in May, 2014. Pursuant to the license agreement, we are subject to various requirements and conditions (including, without limitation, minimum sales targets). Our failure to comply with certain of such requirements and conditions could result in the early termination of the license agreement by T.G.I. Friday’s Inc. Any termination of the T.G.I. Friday’s license agreement, whether at the expiration of its term or prior thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business may be adversely affected by oversupply of snack and frozen products at the wholesale and retail levels and seasonal fluctuations. Profitability in the food product industry is subject to oversupply of certain snack and frozen products at the wholesale and retail levels, which can result in our products going out of date before they are sold. The snack and frozen products industry is also seasonal. Consumers tend to purchase our snack products at higher levels during the major summer holidays and also at times surrounding the major sporting events throughout the year. Consumers tend to purchase fresh berries while in season and therefore we see a decline in frozen berry revenue in the summer months. Any of these seasonal effects may result in an oversupply or undersupply of our products. Additionally, we may face seasonal price increases for raw materials. Such seasonal costs could materially and adversely affect our operating results in any given quarter. We may incur substantial costs in order to market our products. Successful marketing of our products generally depends upon obtaining adequate retail shelf space for product display, particularly in supermarkets. Frequently, food manufacturers and distributors such as us, incur additional costs in order to obtain additional shelf space. Whether or not we incur such costs in a particular market is dependent upon a number of factors, including demand for our products, relative availability of shelf space and general competitive conditions. We may incur significant shelf space or other promotional costs as a necessary condition of entering into competition or maintaining market share in particular markets or stores. If incurred, such costs may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to respond successfully to shifting consumer tastes. Consumer preferences are continually changing and are extremely difficult to predict. Our success depends in part on timely responding to current market trends and anticipating changing consumer tastes and dietary habits by developing and licensing new products and entering new markets. The failure to adequately address changing consumer preferences could result in reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse affect our operating results. The loss of certain key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent in large part upon the abilities of our executive officers, including Terry McDaniel, Chief Executive Officer, and Steve Weinberger, Chief Financial Officer. Our business strategy will challenge our executive officers, and the inability of such officers to perform their duties or our inability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our strategy to expand our business internationally. We plan to expand sales to Canadian customers and are exploring other international market opportunities for our brands. Such expansion may require significant management attention and financial resources and may not produce desired levels of revenue. International business is subject to inherent risks, including longer accounts receivable collection cycles, difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographical areas, difficulties enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights, fluctuations in local economic, market and political conditions, compliance requirements with U.S. and foreign export regulations, potential adverse tax consequences and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Risks Related to the Snack Product Segment We may not be able to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry. The market for snack foods, such as those sold by us, is large and intensely competitive. Competitive factors in the snack food industry include product quality and taste, brand awareness among consumers, access to supermarket shelf space, price, advertising and promotion, variety of snacks offered, nutritional content, product packaging and package design. We compete in that market principally on the basis of product taste and quality. The snack food industry is dominated by large food companies, including Frito-Lay, Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc., Procter and Gamble, Diamond Foods, General Mills and others which have substantially greater financial and other resources than us and sell brands that are more widely recognized than our products. Numerous other companies that are actual or potential competitors of ours, many with greater financial and other resources (including more employees and more extensive facilities) than us, offer products similar to ours. In addition, many of such competitors offer a wider range of products than that offered by us. Local or regional markets often have significant smaller competitors, many of whom offer products similar to ours. With expansion of our operations into new markets, we have and will continue to encounter significant competition from national, regional and local competitors that may be greater than that encountered by us in our existing markets. In addition, such competitors may challenge our position in our existing markets. Unavailability of our necessary supplies, at reasonable prices, could adversely affect our operations. Our manufacturing costs are subject to fluctuations in the prices of potatoes, potato flakes, potato starch, corn and oil as well as other ingredients of our products. Potatoes, potato flakes, potato starch and corn are widely available year-round, and we use a variety of oils in the production of our products. Nonetheless, we are dependent on our suppliers to provide us with products and ingredients in adequate supply and on a timely basis. The failure of certain suppliers to meet our performance specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. To the extent that product ingredients become scarce, substantially increase in price, or become unavailable or unavailable on commercially attractive terms, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we may lock in prices for raw materials, such as oils, as we deem appropriate, and such strategies may result in us paying prices for raw materials that are above market at the time of purchase. We do not own the patents for the technology we use to manufacture certain T.G.I. Friday’s®, Boulder Canyon®, BURGER KING TM and Tato Skins® brand products, as well as certain private label branded products. We license technology from a third party in connection with the manufacture of certain T.G.I. Friday’s®, Boulder Canyon®, BURGER KING TM and Tato Skins® brand products, as well as certain private label branded products and have a royalty-bearing, exclusive right license to use the technology necessary to produce these products in the United States, Canada, and Mexico until such time the parties mutually agree to terminate the agreement. Even though the patents for this technology expired December 26, 2006, in consideration for the use of this technology, we are required to make royalty payments to the third party on sales of products manufactured utilizing the technology until such termination date. Since these patents expired, we no longer have exclusive rights to this technology and, as a result, may face additional competition that could adversely affect our revenues. Moreover, our competitors, certain of which may have significantly greater resources than us, may utilize different technology in the manufacture of products that are similar to those currently manufactured, or that may in the future be manufactured, by us. The entry of any such products into the marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our sales of certain T.G.I. Friday’s®, Boulder Canyon®, BURGER KINGTM and Tato Skins® brand products, certain private label branded products, as well as any such future products. Risks Related to the Frozen Products Segment Farming is subject to numerous inherent risks including changes in weather conditions or natural disasters that can have an adverse impact on crop production and materially affect our results of operations. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to the agricultural industry. Adverse changes in weather conditions and 11 Table of Contents natural disasters, such as earthquakes, droughts, extreme cold or pestilence, may affect the planting, growing and delivery of crops, reduce sales stock, interrupt distribution, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. Unavailability of purchased berries, at reasonable prices, could adversely affect operations. Our manufacturing costs are subject to fluctuations in the prices of certain commodity prices. Berries are not readily available year-round, therefore, we use an individual quick frozen (IQF) technique to freeze the berries harvested for use during the year to meet processing demands. In addition to freezing our own home-grown berries, we also purchase a significant amount of berries from outside suppliers to meet customer demands. We are dependent on our suppliers to provide us with adequate supply and on a timely basis. The failure of certain suppliers to meet our performance specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. To the extent that certain types of berries become scarce, substantially increase in price, or become unavailable or unavailable on commercially attractive terms, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Securities The market price of our Common Stock is volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has experienced a high level of volatility. During fiscal 2011, the market price of our Common Stock (based on last reported sale price of the Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Market) ranged from a high of $4.76 per share to a low of $3.33 per share. The last reported sales price of the Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Market on December 31, 2011 was $3.74 per share. A significant amount of our Common Stock is controlled by a small number of shareholders, and the interests of such shareholders may conflict with those of other shareholders. As of December 31, 2011, Larry Polhill, a member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned 23.2% of our outstanding shares. As a result, Mr. Polhill may be able to exercise significant influence over the Company and certain matters requiring approval of its stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or its assets. This could limit the ability of other stockholders of the Company to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company. Apart from transfer restrictions arising under applicable provisions of the securities laws, there are no restrictions on the ability of Mr. Polhill to transfer any or all of his beneficial ownership at any time. One or more of such transfers could have the effect of transferring effective control of the Company, including to one or more parties not currently known to us. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue preferred stock, and the rights of holders of Common Stock may be adversely affected by the rights of holders of any such preferred stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. We may issue such shares of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company, and preventing holders of Common Stock from realizing a premium on their shares. In addition, under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), we are prohibited from engaging in any business combination (as defined in the DGCL) with any interested shareholder (as defined in the DGCL) unless certain conditions are met. This statutory provision could also have an anti-takeover effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 12 Table of Contents 