Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our future business, financial performance or share price. Before you invest in our Company, you should carefully consider the risks described below which could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We do not have any products approved for sale. Our primary product candidates are in clinical development. If our trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products. Our product candidates are all pharmaceutical products. We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates, including in human clinical trials, before we can apply for or obtain regulatory approval to sell our products. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results. We would need to reevaluate any drug that did not test favorably and either alter the drug or dose, modify the trial protocol, commence additional trials, or abandon the drug development project completely. In such circumstances, we would not be able to apply for or obtain regulatory approval for an extended period of time, if ever. Factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: • slow patient enrollment; • long treatment time required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; • negative or equivocal findings of the DSMB for a trial; and • lack of sufficient funds. If we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to sell our products and the value of our company and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. We cannot sell or market our drugs without regulatory approval. If we cannot obtain regulatory approval for our products, the value of our company and our financial results will be materially adversely affected. In the United States, we must obtain approval from the FDA for each drug that we intend to sell. Accordingly, if and when we complete the several required phases of clinical testing for any drug candidate, we will submit our test results to the FDA. FDA review may generally take up to two years and approval is not assured. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed outside the United States. A delay in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates will also have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, regulatory approval of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML has already been delayed and may be further delayed in light of the fact that our Phase III trial of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML was put on clinical hold by the FDA in May 2007. That trial was commenced in March 2005 and accrued 268 patients. Although in January 2008 the FDA lifted the clinical hold on the trial and we reached initial agreement with the FDA on modifications to the original Phase III study protocol resulting in a new Phase III trial, there can be no assurance th at we will start the amended trial in 2008 or at any time in the future, or that any new trial would not in the future be put on regulatory hold or that the new trial will result in regulatory approval of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML, or what the timing of that approval might be. 17 Table of Contents In the near term, we are heavily dependent on the success of our lead product candidate Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) which is still under development. If Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) is not successful in clinical trials or we do not obtain FDA approval of Cloretazine® (VNP4 0101M), or if FDA delays approval or narrows the indications for which we may market Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), our business will be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that our ability to generate revenues in the foreseeable future will depend on the successful development and commercialization of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) and, in particular and in the nearer term, for the treatment of previously untreated elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. We have focused substantially all of our resources on the development of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M). The commercial success of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) will depend on several factors, including successful completion of our pi votal Phase II clinical trial for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M); filing an NDA based on this trial; receipt of approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities through third party manufacturers; successfully launching commercial sales and distribution of the products, either ourselves or through third parties; and acceptance of the products in the medical community and by third party payers, none of which can be assured. If the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities do grant approval for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), they may narrow the indications for which we are permitted to market it, may impose other restrictions on the use or marketin g of the product, or may require us to conduct additional post-marketing trials. A narrowed indication or other restrictions may limit the market potential for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) and any obligation to conduct additional clinical trials would result in increased expenditures and lower revenues. If we are not successful in commercializing our lead product candidate Cloretazine® (VNP40101M), or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business will be materially adversely affected and we may need to curtail or cease operations. In May 2006, we commenced a pivotal Phase II trial of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in previously untreated elderly patients with de novo poor-risk AML. Elderly de novo poor-risk AML patients are those elderly patients whose poor-risk AML has not evolved from a prior myelodysplastic syndrome or from prior treatment with chemotherapy. In August 2007, we announced that 85 patients had been enrolled to this trial and that certain sites would remain open and continue to accrue patients to conduct an electrocardiograph eval uation (QT/QTc) sub-study. In December 2007, we announced preliminary data from this trial in a poster at the Annual Meeting of the American Society of Hematology, reporting an overall response rate of 35% in 80 evaluable patients in the trial. Although these preliminary data indicate that we met the criteria for a successful trial based on the primary endpoint, the overall response rate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to file an NDA based on the data from this trial in 2008, or at any time, or that the NDA will be approved on a timely basis by the FDA, if it all. Our Phase III trial of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in combination with cytarabine in relapsed AML was initiated in March 2005 and has accrued 268 patients. In May 2007, we announced that we would suspend enrollment and patient treatment pending a detailed review of all of the data from the trial. This decision was based on a planned interim analysis of clinical data from the first 210 treated patients by the trial’s DSMB that resulted in a recommendation that enrollment and further treatment of patients on study be suspended. The DSMB’s recommendation was based on their evaluation that any advantage in the primary end point, the response rate, was being compromised by the mortality observed on the study. In May 2007, the FDA placed the trial on clinical hold. We subsequently performed a com prehensive safety and efficacy analysis with our personnel and external and independent medical consultants. In November 2007, we announced that discussions with the DSMB for the trial regarding the findings of the medical and safety review had been completed and the next step of the process was to present the findings and recommendations to the regulatory authorities. In January 2008, we announced that the FDA had lifted the clinical hold on the trial and that we had reached initial agreement with the FDA on modifications to the original Phase III study protocol resulting in a new Phase III trial. Among other changes, a new trial is likely to include a lowered dose of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) in the experimental arm of the trial, and prophylactic therapy with antibiotics, anti-fungals and growth factors for all patients. We now plan to submit a 18 Table of Contents Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) to the FDA in 2008 with these modifications before starting the new trial. There can be no assurance that we will successfully complete an SPA for this trial in 2008, or that we will start the amended trial in 2008 or at any time in the future, or that any such amended trial will result in regulatory approval. We would need to reevaluate Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) if the data from any of its clinical trials raised issues relative to its safety and efficacy. In such event, we would alter the drug or dose as used in the trial, modify the clinical trial protocol, commence additional trials, or abandon the drug development project. In any such event, our business, operations and prospects would be materially adversely affected, and our ability to apply for or obtain regulatory approval might be delayed, or we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval at all. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred losses since inception. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $209.2 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research, development and preclinical and clinical trials of product candidates. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct drug trials and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our future profitability depends on our receiving regulatory approval of our product candidates and our ability to successfully manufacture and market approved drugs. The extent of our future losses and the timing of our profitability are highly uncertain. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue or complete our product development. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund operations and complete our product development. As of December 31, 2007, we had $61.1 million in cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations and continue our product development. We have determined to focus substantially all of our resources on the development and commercialization of Cloretazine® (VNP40101M). However, we will not have an approved and marketable product for the foreseeable future. Under our current operating plan, if we do not have an approved product for sale which is generating significant revenues, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to have sufficient capital to fund our operations beyond the third quarter of 2009. We may not get funding when we need it or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate our research and development activities, clinical studies or future operations. We might have to license our technology to others. This could result in sharing revenues which we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: • the progress, timing and scope of our product development programs; • the progress, timing and scope of our clinical trials; • the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities; • the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships; and • our partners’ commitment of time and resource to the development of our products. 19 Table of Contents We are significantly leveraged. In February 2007, we issued $60 million principal amount of our convertible senior notes due February 15, 2012. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations on the notes will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If the testing or use of our product candidates harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products. These risks are particularly inherent in human trials of our proposed products. Unacceptable side effects may be discovered during preclinical and clinical testing of one or more of our potential products. Side effects and other liability risks could give rise to viable product liability claims against us. While we have obtained insurance coverage for patients enrolled in clinical trials, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms; insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, and we may need additional insurance coverage for expanded clinical trials and commercial activity. As a result, product liability claims, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the side effects are determ ined to be unacceptable, we will not be able to commercialize our products. If we are found to be infringing on patents or trade secrets owned by others, we may be forced to cease or alter our drug development efforts, obtain a license to continue the development or sale of our products, and/or pay damages. Our manufacturing processes and potential products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others, or the trade secrets of those persons and entities. As the drug development industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our processes and potential products may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or trade secrets of others. These other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or process. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to conduct clinical tests, manufacture or market the affected product or use the affected process. Required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and the results of litigation are uncertain. If we become involved in litigation or other proceedings, it could consume a substantial portion of our financial resources and the efforts of our personnel. We rely on confidentiality agreements to protect our trade secrets. If these agreements are breached by our employees or other parties, our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. We rely on trade secrets that we seek to protect through confidentiality agreements with our employees and other parties. If these agreements are breached, our competitors may obtain and use our trade secrets to gain a competitive advantage over us. We may not have any remedies against our competitors and any remedies that may be available to us may not be adequate to protect our business or compensate us for the damaging disclosure. In addition, we may have to expend resources to protect our interests from possible infringement by others. 20 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our technology is subject to limited retained rights of our licensors, and we may not be able to prevent the grant of similar rights to third parties. A substantial portion of our technology is licensed from academic institutions which technology license agreements are subject to the federal Bayh Dole Act, pursuant to which the federal government has certain limited rights to use the technology and to even require us to grant a license to one or more third parties if we are not fully developing the technology. In certain cases we also have the right to practice improvements on the licensed technology to the extent they are encompassed by the licensed patents and within our field of use. Our licensors may currently own and may in the future obtain additional patents and patent applications that are helpful for the development, manufacture and commercial sale of our anticipated products. We may be unable to agree with one or more academic institutions from which we have obtained licenses that certain intellectual property developed by researchers at these academic institutions is covered by our existing licenses. In the event that the new intellectual property is not covered by our existing licenses, we would be required to negotiate a new license agreement. We may not be able to reach agreement with current or future licensors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or the terms may not permit us to sell our products at a profit after payment of royalties, which c ould harm our business. Our licenses generally also may be terminated by the licensor if we default in performance of our obligations. If any of our licenses are terminated, we may lose certain rights to manufacture, sell, market and distribute products which would significantly reduce our actual and potential revenues and have a material and negative impact on our operations. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents or trade secrets, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Moreover, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain for products that are currently in the early stages of development because we cannot predict which of these products will ultimately reach the commercial market or whether the commercial versions of these products will incorporate proprietary technologies. Our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable technologies, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. 21 Table of Contents As a result, our owned and licensed patents may not be valid and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents and to maintain trade secret protection for our technology. The extent to which we are unable to do so could materially harm our business. We or our licensors have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain products. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with adequate protection from competition. Furthermore, it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, if we have a preferred competitive position because of such patents, any preferred position held by us would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, we could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Litigation may also absorb significant management time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to and will continue to attempt to protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Certain of our patent rights are licensed to us by third parties. If we fail to comply with the terms of these license agreements, our rights to those patents may be terminated, and we will be unable to conduct our business. If we fail to recruit and retain key personnel, our research and development programs may be delayed. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly, Alan Kessman, our chief executive officer and director; Howard B. Johnson, our president and chief financial officer; Ann Lee Cahill, our vice president, clinical development; Meghan Fitzgerald, our vice president and chief business officer; William F. Hahne, M.D., our vice president, medical affairs; Ivan King, Ph.D., our vice president, research and development; Aileen Ryan, our vice president, regulatory affairs and James Tanguay, Ph.D., our vice president, chemistry, manufacturing & control. There is intense competition in the drug development industry for qualified scientific and technical personnel. Since our business is very technical and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business, particularly in light o f our need to raise additional financing in order to continue our operations beyond the third quarter of 2009. We have no key man insurance policies on any of the officers listed above and we only have an employment agreement with Mr. Kessman. If we lose the services of our management and scientific personnel or fail to recruit other scientific and technical personnel, our research and product development programs will be significantly and detrimentally affected. We face intense competition in the market for anticancer products, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have publicly announced their intention to develop 22 Table of Contents drugs for the treatment of cancer including, in some instances, the development of agents which treat AML and/or are alkylating agents similar to our compound Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) and agents which target ribonucleotide reductase similar to our compound Triapine®. These companies include, but are not limited to Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Genzyme Corporation and its subsidiary, Bioenvision, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, Chiron Corporation, Eli Lilly and Co., Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Genentech Inc., ImClone Systems Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Lorus Therapeutics Inc., MGI Pharma, Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Pharmion Corp., Schering-Plough Corporation, Wyeth, and Xanthus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. These and other large pharmaceutical companies have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do and have substantially greater experience in undertaking preclinical and clinical testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In addition, our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly than us and in developing and commercializing products that are safer and more effective than those that we propose to develop. The existence of these products, other products or treatments of which we are not aware or products or treatments that may be developed in the future may adversely affect the marketability of our products by rendering them less competitive or obsolete. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we may compete with other companies in acquirin g rights to products or technologies from universities. If our corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others do not conduct activities in accordance with our arrangements, our research and development efforts may be delayed. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our products entails entering into various arrangements with corporate partners, licensors, licensees, collaborators at research institutions and others. We currently depend on the following third parties: • Healthcare facilities in the United States and other countries to perform human clinical trials of our products; • Clinical research organizations in the United States and other countries to monitor and collect data related to human clinical trials; • The NCI to perform human clinical trials of Triapine®; • Contract manufacturers to produce our products for use in clinical and potential commercial activities; • Consultants to assist with the preparation of our NDA and our commercialization efforts; and • Yale for research and for technologies that are licensed by them to us. If the third parties do not conduct activities in accordance with the arrangements we have with them, or if these arrangements are terminated, our product development efforts may be delayed. We may also rely on other collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals and to manufacture and market our products. The amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities by these other parties may not be within our control. If Yale does not conduct research relating to products we would like to pursue, we may never realize any benefits from our funding provided to Yale. We have paid approximately $10.8 million to fund research at Yale (including research activities of one of our directors, an affiliate of Yale) through March 31, 2008. We may continue to support certain research projects at Yale. We generally do not have the right to control the research that Yale conducts with our funding, and our funds may not be used to conduct research relating to products that we would like to pursue. Additionally, if the research conducted by Yale results in technologies that Yale has not already licensed or agreed to license to us, we may need to negotiate additional license agreements or we may be unable to utilize those technologies. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future drug products. We have no experience with marketing, sales and distribution of drug products and have only recently established pre-commercial capability in those areas. If we are unable to establish capabilities to sell, market and distribute our products, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully sell our future drug products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates. If these third-party manufacturers fail to manufacture product candidates of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at acceptable costs, development and commercialization of our products could be delayed. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we have no experience in the commercial manufacturing of drugs or in validating drug manufacturing processes. We have contracted with third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates for regulatory approvals and clinical trials. We have limited supplies of our product candidates for clinical trials. If our supplies are damaged or destroyed, either during storage or shipping or otherwise, our clinical trials may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute commercial quantities of our product candidates. We will also rely on our third-party manufacturing partners to work with us to complete the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control, or CMC, section of any nondisclosure agreements or any marketing approval application we may file. Contract manufacturers are obliged to operate in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs or to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical trials and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. Changing contract manufacturers may be difficult, and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers requires validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with government mandated obligations, including FDA-mandated cGMPs. Such validation may be costly and time-consuming. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly, if at all. Either of these factors could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or cause a decline in potential product revenues. Drug manufacturers are subject to on-going, periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third-party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant market approval of drugs, delays, suspension of clinical trials, withdrawal of approvals, seizures, detentions or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities by third-party manufacturers for preclinical and clinical trials. We have not validated the manufacturing process for Cloretazine® (VNP40101M) to date. In order to obtain marketing approval for any of these product candidates, we will need to enter into and maintain long-term supply agreements with our existing or new third-party manufacturers, such as our agreements with SAFC or Ben Venue Laboratories, and demonstrate that we can manufacture sufficient quantities under a validated manufacturing process for 24 Table of Contents commercial sale. Our third-party manufacturers may terminate our agreements, may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity, validate our manufacturing process, or apply at commercial scale the current manufacturing process for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. This may require seeking out additional manufacturing partners who may have different equipment requiring additional validation studies, which the relevant government regulator must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully validate or increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure of our third-party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. If environmental laws become stricter in the future, we may face large capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to expend to comply with comprehensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We must comply with environmental laws that govern, among other things, all emissions, waste water discharge and solid and hazardous waste disposal, and the remediation of contamination associated with generation, handling and disposal activities. To date, we have not incurred significant costs and are not aware of any significant liabilities associated with our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and may face large capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws. We have limited capital and are uncertain whether we will be able to pay for significantly large capital expenditures. Also, future developmen ts, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. All of our operations are performed under strict environmental and health safety controls consistent with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to control all health and safety problems. If we cannot control those problems, we may be held liable and may be required to pay the costs of remediation. These liabilities and costs could be material. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and may also dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our company. Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities, and we may seek acquisitions to do so. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these 25 Table of Contents acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our common stock, which could dilute current stockholder’s ownership interest in our company. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM. Among other things, delisting from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM would cause us to become ineligible to use Form S-3 for the registration of the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders. If the price of our common stock declines below $1.00 per share, we may fail to meet Nasdaq’s maintenance criteria, which may result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM. In the event of such delisting, trading, if any, in our common stock may then continue to be conducted in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board and the ‘‘pink sheets.’’ As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to a Rule promulgated by the SEC that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such Rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a materially adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting from the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM will also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. We are a party to several registration rights agreements, which require us to maintain the effectiveness of registration statements relating to the resale of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and upon conversion of our outstanding notes by holders of such warrants and notes. If we are ineligible to use Form S-3, we will need to file new registration statements on some other permitted Form and maintenance of the ef fectiveness of such registration statements will become extremely difficult. Under the applicable registration rights agreements, we could become subject to certain liquidated damages upon and during the continuance of any such failure. We would also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws to sell equity if we are delisted. On September 18, 2007, we announced we had received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. dated September 17, 2007 notifying us that during the preceding 30 consecutive trading days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required by the Nasdaq Stock Market under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). The letter stated that, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we had until March 17, 2008 to demonstrate compliance with the Rule (i.e. the bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days, and under certain circumstances, more than 10 trading days). On February 20, 2008, we effected a one-for-ten reverse split of our common stock and, as of March 5, 2008, we regained compliance with the Rule. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq’s listing standards for any length of time. Our common stock price has been highly volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • positive or adverse developments with respect to obtaining regulatory approval of our proposed products; 26 Table of Contents • positive or adverse developments with respect to our drug trials; • actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • litigation or threat of litigation; • failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements of new products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our common stock and issuances of common stock to pay interest on our outstanding senior convertible notes; • economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; • limited daily trading volume; and • developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Capital MarketSM and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management& rsquo;s attention and resources. The terms of our outstanding notes and warrants, as well as any additional funding we raise in the future could cause extreme dilution to our stockholders. Further, the large number of our shares that may be held in the market may depress the market price of our stock. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes, our payment of interest or make-whole premiums on the notes under certain circumstances with shares of common stock, and the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the sale of the notes, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Additional shares of common stock will be issued upon the exercise of other outstanding warrants and options, as well as for awards under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and purchases under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Further, to the extent we determine that we need additional financing and we encounter additional opportunities to raise cash, we would likely sell additional equity or debt securities. Depending on our stock price and market conditions at the time of any capital raise, and the amount of capital we need, such debt or equity securities may be sold at relatively low prices, including prices which are below the market price of our common stock, and may have substantial rights to control us. Stockholders would experience extreme dilution as well as subordination of their rights. Other than as set forth in the indenture governing the notes, we do not have any contractual restrictions on our ability to incur debt. Any indebtedness could contain covenants that restrict our operations. Any sales in the public market of the common stock paid as interest or as a make-whole premium, issuable upon conversion of the notes or exercise of warrants, the exercise of outstanding options or the issuance of equity pursuant to our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Future sales of 27 Table of Contents substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could also affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to our stockholders may allow our Board of Directors and management to deter a potential acquisition in which the Board of Directors and management are to be replaced. We have in place a stockholder rights plan, or ‘‘poison pill,’’ which enables our Board of Directors to issue rights to purchase common stock when someone acquires 20% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of the plan, anyone wishing to take over the company would most likely be forced to negotiate a transaction with our Board of Directors and management in order not to trigger the pill. The need to negotiate with the Board of Directors or management could frustrate a proposed takeover particularly where the Board of Directors and management wish to remain entrenched. This would prevent our stockholders from participating in a takeover or tender offer, which might be of substantial value to them. Provisions of our outstanding convertible senior notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our outstanding convertible senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, including a provision requiring an acquirer to assume all of our obligations under the notes and the indenture. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change under the indenture relating to the notes, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 