RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value or our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated) and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. ~ 8 ~ Our business could be harmed by the deteriorating general economic and market conditions that lead to reduced spending on information technology products. As our business has expanded globally, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Economic growth in the U.S. and other countries slowed during the second half of calendar year 2008, which caused our customers to delay or reduce information technology purchases. If economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries continue to deteriorate, customers may continue to delay or further reduce purchases. This could result in additional reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our OEM and VAR customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which would increase our credit risk exposure and cause a decrease in operating cash flows. Also, if our OEM and VAR customers experience excessive financial difficulties and/or insolvency, and we are unable to successfully transition end-users to purchase our product from other vendors or directly from us, our sales could decline significantly. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued disruption in credit markets and world-wide economic changes may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Recent disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business and our financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services. It may also result in customers extending the length of time in which they pay and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases, even if they have cash or if credit is available to them. Our future capital needs are uncertain and our ability to access additional financing may be negatively impacted by the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy. Our capital requirements in the future will depend on many factors, including: · Acceptance of and demand for our products; · The extent to which we invest in new technology and product development; · The costs of developing new products, services or technologies; · The number and method of financing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; and · The costs associated with the growth of our business, if any. We intend to finance our operations and any growth of our business with existing cash and cash flow from operations. We believe that our existing cash and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements through at least the next twelve months from the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If adverse global economic conditions persist or worsen, however, we could experience a decrease in cash flow from operations and may need additional financing to fund operations. Due to the existing uncertainty in the capital markets (including debt, private equity, venture capital and traditional bank lending), access to additional debt or equity may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms when necessary, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. We may experience significant fluctuations in our revenue growth rate and operating results. We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates and review all estimates on a quarterly basis. Many of our expenses and investments are fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our sales are lower than expected. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease or fluctuate significantly. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our OEM and VAR customers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. ~ 9 ~ Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: demand for our software solutions and services; our sales cycle; economic cycles; the level of reimbursements to our end-user customers from government sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid); accounting policy changes mandated by regulating entities; delays due to customers’ internal budgets and procedures for approving capital expenditures, by competing needs for other capital expenditures and the deployment of new technologies and personnel resources; our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ demands; our ability to fulfill orders; the introduction of competitive products and services; price decreases; changes in the usage of the Internet and eCommerce including in non-U.S. markets; timing, effectiveness and costs of expansion and changes in our systems and infrastructure; the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims; and variations in the mix of products and services that we sell. Delays in the expected sale or installation of our software may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently, our earnings, since a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed. Additionally, we sometimes depend, in part, upon large contracts with a small number of OEM customers to meet our sales goals in any particular quarter. Delays in the expected sale or installation of solutions under these large contracts may have a significant impact on our quarterly net sales and consequently our earnings, particularly because a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. The length of our sales and implementation cycles may adversely affect our future operating results. We have experienced long sales and implementation cycles. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially modify medical imaging management software, or to modify or add business processes, are major decisions for our end-user target market. The sales cycle for our software ranges from six to 18 months or more from initial contact to contract execution. Our end-user implementation cycle has generally ranged from three to nine months from contract execution to completion of implementation. During the sales and implementation cycles, we will expend substantial time, effort and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software. We may not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures. Additionally, any decision by our customers to delay or cancel purchases or the implementation of our software may adversely affect our net sales. We have outstanding debt and may incur additional debt in the future. On June 4, 2008, we closed a financing transaction with Merrick in which we received gross proceeds of $20.0 million from Merrick in exchange for a $15.0 million senior secured term note (the “Note”) due June 4, 2010 and 21,085,715 shares of our Common Stock. Our ability to repay the principal of the Note and any additional indebtedness that we may incur is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. Our ownership is concentrated among a small number of stockholders. Our ownership is concentrated among a small number of stockholders, including Merrick, an affiliate of Merrick Ventures, LLC (“Merrick Ventures”) and Michael W. Ferro, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Merrick Ventures, who is also Chairman of our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2008, Merrick held approximately 49.9% of our outstanding Common Stock, and Mr. Ferro and Merrick are thus able to exert substantial control over various corporate matters including approvals of mergers, sales of assets, issuance of capital stock and similar transactions. If we are unable to successfully identify or effectively integrate acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected. We have in the past and may in the future acquire and make investments in companies, products or technologies that we believe complement or expand our existing business and assist us in quickly bringing new products to market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may be subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations and divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. ~ 10 ~ In making or attempting to make acquisitions or investments, we face a number of risks, including risks related to: · Identifying suitable candidates, performing appropriate due diligence, identifying potential liabilities and negotiating acceptable terms; · Reducing our working capital and hindering our ability to expand or maintain our business, if we make acquisitions using cash; · The potential distraction of our management, diversion of our resources and disruption to our business; · Retaining and motivating key employees of the acquired companies; · Managing operations that are distant from our current headquarters and operational locations; · Entering into geographic markets in which we have little or no prior experience; · Competing for acquisition opportunities with competitors that are larger than we are or have greater financial and other resources than we have; · Accurately forecasting the financial impact of a transaction; · Assuming liabilities of acquired companies, including existing or potential litigation related to the operation of the business prior to the acquisition; · Maintaining good relations with the customers and suppliers of the acquired company; and · Effectively integrating acquired companies and achieving expected synergies. In addition, any acquired business, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue and net income to offset the associated costs of such acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in other adverse effects. Moreover, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations of the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies but be unable or unwilling to consummate the acquisitions under consideration. This can be expensive and could cause significant diversion of managerial attention and resources. A portion of our business relies upon a network of independent contractors and distributors whose actions could have an adverse effect on our business. We obtain some of our critical information from independent contractors. In addition, we rely on a network of VAR's and distributors to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales team. These independent contractors and distributors are not employees of Merge. As a result, we are limited in our ability to monitor and direct their activities. The loss of a significant number of these independent contractors or dealers could disrupt our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Furthermore, if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or otherwise are deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions or reputation damage, any of which could adversely affect our business and we may need to terminate our relationship with them. Our investments in technology may not be sufficient and may not result in an increase in our revenue or decrease in our operating costs. As the technological landscape continues to evolve, it may become increasingly difficult for us to make timely, cost-effective changes to our offerings in a manner that adequately differentiates them from those of our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that our investments have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies and products by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business. ~ 11 ~ We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. Some of our competitors focus on sub-markets within our targeted industries, while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources with recognized brands, technological expertise and market experience. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us, but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments which would adversely affect our margins. If we are unable or unwilling to do so, we may lose market share in our target markets and our financial results may be adversely affected. We face aggressive competition in many areas of our business, and our business will be harmed if we fail to compete effectively. The markets for medical imaging solutions are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We may be unable to maintain our competitive position against our current and potential competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we have, and we may not be able to compete effectively with them. In addition, new competitors may emerge and our system and software solution offerings may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of our solutions. Further, our recent challenges may have weakened our competitive position. We often “compete” with our OEM customers’ own internal software engineering groups. The size and competency of these groups may create additional competition for us. In the area of RIS and PACS workflow applications, many competitors offer portions of an integrated radiology solution through their RIS and PACS. Additionally, certain competitors are integrating RIS and PACS technologies through development, partnership and acquisition activities. The development and acquisition of additional products, services and technologies, and the improvement of our existing products and services, require significant investments in research and development. For example, our current product candidates are in various stages of development and may require significant further research, development, pre-clinical or clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization. If we fail to successfully sell new products and update our existing products, our operating results may decline as our existing products reach the end of their commercial life cycles. Headcount reductions in the first half of 2008 have placed additional strain on our resources, may impair our operations and may adversely impact our ability to retain qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel. To streamline our operations, reduce costs and bring our staffing and cost structure in line with our revenue base, we announced workforce reductions in both February and June 2008. Total worldwide headcount at December 31, 2008 was approximately 250 persons. Certain of the employees who were terminated possessed specific knowledge or expertise, and we may not have successfully transferred that knowledge or expertise to other employees. In that case, the absence of such employees may create significant operational difficulties. Further, the reduction in workforce may have reduced employee morale, and created concern among potential and existing employees about job security, which may lead to difficulty in hiring and increased turnover in our current workforce. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. Our performance and future success depends on our ability to attract, integrate and retain qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel. We are dependent, in part, upon the services of our senior executives and other key business and technical personnel. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on our senior executives. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success will depend upon, among other things, the successful recruiting and retention of highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel with experience in business activities such as ours. Competition for the type of highly skilled individuals sought by us is intense. We may not be able to retain existing key employees or be able to find, attract and retain skilled personnel on acceptable terms. ~ 12 ~ We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate intellectual property rights in all countries where we do business. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the payment of damages. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing services under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. We also rely on proprietary know how and confidential information and employ various methods, such as entering into confidentiality and non-compete agreements with our current employees and with certain third parties to whom we have divulged proprietary information to protect the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our solutions. Such methods may not afford sufficient protection to us, and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately or to ensure that other companies would not acquire information that we consider proprietary. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property is harmed by the products and services that we sell. Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or environmental or property damage and may require product recalls or other actions. Certain third parties, primarily our customers, also sell products or services using our products. This may increase our exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We have foreign exchange risk. The results of our international operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. While the functional currency of most of our international operations is the U.S. Dollar, we maintain certain account balances in the local currency. Upon remeasurement of such accounts or through normal operations, results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of such balances. As we expand our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand into international market segments. Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. We have relatively little experience operating in these or future market segments and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · Local economic and political conditions; ~ 13 ~ · Foreign government regulation of healthcare and government reimbursement of health services; · Local restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products and services; · Local import, export or other business licensing requirements; · Local limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; · Shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; · Local laws and regulations regarding data protection, privacy, network security and restrictions on pricing; · Difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; · Different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; · Laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans and taxes; and · Geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. Litigation or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial condition. We and certain of our former officers were defendants in several lawsuits relating to our accounting and financial disclosure. These lawsuits and our other legal matters are described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These lawsuits were settled in 2008 and have been dismissed. On April 27, 2006, Merge received an informal, non-public inquiry from the SEC requesting voluntary production of documents and other information. The inquiry principally related to our announcement, on March 17, 2006, that we would investigate allegations of improprieties related to financial reporting and revise our results of operations for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2005, and September 30, 2005. On July 10, 2007, SEC Staff advised us that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation in this matter. Merge is cooperating fully with the SEC. The SEC Staff has informed us that the Staff is considering recommending an injunctive or cease and desist order against us prohibiting violations of the reporting, record-keeping, and internal control provisions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Staff did not inform us that it is considering recommending any monetary sanctions against us. However, the matter has not yet been finally resolved, and, until such final resolution, we will continue to incur expenses, including legal fees and other costs, in connection with the SEC’s investigation. As a result of these lawsuits and regulatory matters, we have incurred and may to continue to incur substantial expenses. We may have difficulty and incur significant expense in obtaining directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. As a result of the shareholder derivative and class action litigation, we may have difficulty finding appropriate directors and officers liability coverage, or, if appropriate coverage is found, the resulting premiums may be substantially more expensive than we have incurred in the past. Our current coverage renews in June of 2009. We are currently beginning the process of obtaining quotes for this renewal coverage. We depend on licenses from third parties for rights to some technology we use, and if we are unable to continue these relationships and maintain our rights to this technology, our business could suffer. Some of the technology used in our software depends upon licenses from third party vendors. These licenses typically expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. We may not be able to continue using the technology made available to us under these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce software shipments until we obtain equivalent technology, which could hurt our business. Most of our third party licenses are nonexclusive. Our competitors may obtain the same right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, particularly with regard to the Microsoft Windows/Intel platform on which most of our products operate, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own software. ~ 14 ~ We are subject to government regulation, changes to which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FDA, including periodic FDA inspections, in Canada under Health Canada’s Medical Devices Regulations, and in other countries by corresponding regulatory authorities. We may be required to undertake additional actions in the U.S. to comply with the Act, regulations promulgated under such act, and any other applicable regulatory requirements. For example, the FDA has increased its focus on regulating computer software intended for the use in a healthcare setting. If our software solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to more extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities. Complying with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive, and may include: · Requiring us to receive FDA clearance of a pre-market notification submission demonstrating substantial equivalence to a device already legally marketed, or to obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application establishing the safety and effectiveness of the software; · Requiring us to comply with rigorous regulations governing the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and · Requiring us to comply with the Act regarding general controls, including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices, reporting of specified malfunctions and adverse device events. A significant portion of our net sales are derived directly or indirectly from sales to end-users, including hospitals, diagnostic imaging centers and specialty clinics, many of which generate some or all of their revenues from government sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid). We believe that the implementation of the reimbursement reductions contained in the DRA has adversely impacted our end-user customers’ revenues per examination, which has caused some of them to respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our software solutions and services, including maintenance. The risk of more Medicare imaging reimbursement cuts remains. Similar obligations may exist in other countries in which we do business, including Canada. Any failure by us to comply with other applicable regulatory requirements, both domestic and foreign, could subject us to a number of enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, product seizures, recalls, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, operating restrictions or limitations on marketing, refusal of the government to grant new clearances or approvals, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Changes in federal and state regulations relating to patient data could depress the demand for our software and impose significant software redesign costs on us. Federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA compliant and non-compliant formats and health plans. Collectively, these groups are known as covered entities. The HIPAA regulations prescribe transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions; protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information and require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Although we are not a covered entity, most of our customers are, and they require that our software and services adhere to HIPAA regulations. Any failure or perception of failure of our software or services to meet HIPAA regulations could adversely affect demand for our software and services and force us potentially to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our software or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients. States and foreign jurisdictions have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA privacy regulations. This may lead to different restrictions for handling individually identifiable health information. As a result, our customers may demand IT solutions and services that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements, which could increase our development costs. In the future, federal, state or foreign governmental authorities may impose new data security regulations or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. We cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business; however, the demand for our software and services may decrease if we are not able to develop and offer software and services that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing our clients. ~ 15 ~ We provide our customers with certain warranties which could result in higher costs than we anticipate. Software products as complex as those offered by us and used in a wide range of clinical and health information systems settings are likely to contain a number of errors or “bugs,” especially early in their product life cycle. Our products include clinical information systems used in patient care settings where a low tolerance for bugs exists. Testing of products is difficult due to the wide range of environments in which systems are installed. The discovery of defects or errors in our software products may cause delays in product delivery, poor client references, payment disputes, contract cancellations or additional expenses and payments to rectify problems. Any of those factors may result in delayed acceptance of, or the return of, our software products. Healthcare industry consolidation could impose pressure on our software prices, reduce our potential client base and reduce demand for our software. Many hospitals and imaging centers have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our target market and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our software. In addition, when hospitals and imaging centers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure, and acquisition of our customers could erode our revenue base. The trading price of our Common Stock has been volatile and may fluctuate substantially in the future. The price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The trading price of our Common Stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: · Our ability to meet or exceed the expectations of analysts or investors; · Changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; · Quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · Announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by our competitors or us; · General conditions in the healthcare IT industry; · Governmental regulatory action and healthcare reform measures, including changes in reimbursement rates for imaging procedures; · Rumors about our performance or software solutions; · Uncertainty regarding our ability to service existing debt; · Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many software, healthcare and technology companies; and · General economic conditions. In addition, the market for our Common Stock may experience price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These fluctuations could have a significant impact on our business due to diminished incentives for management and diminished currency for acquisitions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 