Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the common stock or other securities including debt and debt securities of the Company involves certain risks. Holders of the Company’s securities and prospective investors in those securities should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report, in evaluating an investment in the Company’s securities. If any of the risks and uncertainties discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware, including those relating to the banking and financial services industries in general, regulatory supervision and actions, or which we do not now believe are material, may cause earnings to be lower, or impair our future financial condition or results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. During 2008 and 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the economy and values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity and a lack of financing for many investors. Unemployment has also increased significantly. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent insured depository institutions. In addition, many financial institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans and non-agency mortgage-backed securities. Increases in defaults on mortgages including residential loans, construction and land loans, and commercial real estate loans coupled with declining asset values and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to negatively impact financial services participants such as us. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be aggressive in their supervision of banks and in responding to matters identified in examinations, including the issuance of informal or formal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of the legislation in response to these developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. Further, additional negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels which could cause changes in payment performance, leading to increases in delinquencies and default rates that could impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely extend the impact of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of our borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate in the State of Colorado and in the United States as a whole. Continued deterioration in the business environments could adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank’s loans, the value of our company’s investment securities, and our overall results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory Risks We are subject to informal agreements and other determinations by the OTS that restricts certain of our actions. Effective as of December 10, 2009, the Company and the Bank each entered into separate informal Memorandums of Understanding (“Informal Agreements”) with the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”). The Informal Agreements are not “written agreements” for purposes of Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended. The Informal Agreement between the Company and the OTS provides, among other things, that the Company, acting through its Board of Directors, will (i) support the Bank’s compliance with the Informal Agreement it entered into with the OTS; (ii) not declare or pay dividends or any other capital distribution or redeem any capital stock of the Company, or take dividends representing a reduction in the capital from the Bank, without the prior written non-objection of the Regional Director of the OTS; and (iii) not incur, issue, renew, repurchase, make payments on or rollover any debt, increase any current lines of credit, or guarantee the debt of any entity without receiving the prior written approval of the OTS Regional Director. Pursuant to the terms of the Company’s Credit Agreement with JPMorgan, entering into the Informal Agreements was considered an event of default; however, JPMorgan and the Company entered into an Amendment and Forbearance Agreement dated December 14, 2009 wherein JPMorgan agreed to forbear from declaring the amounts owing under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable as a result of the Company and the Bank executing the Informal Agreements and any events of default resulting therefrom. - 20 - Table of Contents The Informal Agreement between the Bank and the OTS provides, among other things, that the Bank’s Board of Directors will (i) adopt a written Capital Plan for the Bank for the OTS Regional Director’s review and comment, and such plan shall address how the Bank will achieve and maintain by June 30, 2010 a Tier 1 core capital ratio of 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of 12% (as of December 31, 2009, the Bank’s Tier 1 core capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.7% and 10.1%, respectively); and (ii) approve a written Liquidity Contingency Plan to ensure the Bank maintains adequate short-term and long-term liquidity, with such plan to specifically address deposit concentrations and plans to reduce or manage such concentrations. The Informal Agreements remain effective until modified, suspended or terminated by the OTS Regional Director. There can be no assurance that the terms and conditions of the Informal Agreement will be met or that the impact or effect of such terms and conditions will not have a material adverse effect with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. If as a result of its review or examination of the Bank, the OTS or the FDIC should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, liquidity, earnings ability, or other aspects of its operations have worsened or that it or its management is violating or has violated the Informal Agreement or any law or regulation, various additional remedies are available to the OTS and the FDIC. Such remedies include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties, to remove officers and directors, and ultimately to terminate our deposit insurance, which would result in the seizure of the Bank by its regulators. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital, but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. We are required by the Informal Agreement with the OTS, to achieve and maintain a Tier 1 core capital ratio of 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of 12% by June 30, 2010. These capital level requirements are above our current capital levels and our current earnings are not expected to be sufficient to allow us to achieve these required rates by the dates specified. Prospectively we will look to further strengthen our capital position via multiple avenues, including focused expense reductions, optimizing our balance sheet for loans and deposits and increasing net interest income and ultimately improving the overall earnings of the Company. We are also considering certain strategic alternatives for the Company to accelerate our compliance with terms of the Informal Agreement. We raised $81.7 million of capital, net of offering expenses, in the second half of 2009 and a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the negative impact of the mortgage loan market, non-agency mortgage-backed security market, and deteriorating economic conditions, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These outcomes could negatively impact our ability to operate or further expand our operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to raise additional capital, we may need to issue shares of our common stock that would dilute the book value of our common stock and reduce our shareholders’ percentage ownership interest to the extent they do not participate in future offerings. Also, if we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take alterative actions which may include the sale of income-producing assets to meet our capital requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our operations and ability to generate income. As a regulated entity, the Bank must maintain certain required levels of regulatory capital that may limit our operations and potential growth. The Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the OTS. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Bank’s and our Company’s consolidated financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Bank’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet commitments as calculated under these regulations. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and defined ratios of total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and of Tier 1 capital to total assets. For the Bank, Tier 1 capital consists of shareholder’s equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on certain securities, less a portion of the Bank’s mortgage servicing asset that is disallowed for capital. For the Bank, total capital consists of Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for credit losses less a deduction for low level recourse obligations. In the capital calculation for the Bank, the allowance for credit losses is limited to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and, accordingly, the Bank does not receive a capital benefit for $14.1 million, which is disallowed in its capital calculation. - 21 - Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, the Bank was required to establish a deferred tax valuation allowance of $14.5 million. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence, both negative and positive. Positive evidence necessary to overcome the negative evidence includes whether future taxable income in sufficient amounts and character within the carryback and carryforward periods is available under the tax law. When negative evidence (e.g., cumulative losses in recent years) exists, more positive evidence than negative evidence will be necessary. If the positive evidence is not sufficient to exceed the negative evidence, a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is established. The deferred tax valuation allowance reduced the Bank’s preliminary deferred tax asset of $27.9 million by 52% to $13.5 million. The establishment of this deferred tax valuation allowance had a negative impact to the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations and capital ratios. The incurrence of additional losses or reduction of positive evidence related to the portion of the deferred tax asset that remains could result in additional valuation allowance of the balance of the deferred tax balances. Many factors may affect the Bank’s capital and its ability to maintain required capital ratios. For example, loan grading decisions, loan impairments, recognized loan losses, declines in the ratings of certain non-agency mortgage backed securities or other factors leading to impairments of these securities, increased operating expenses and other factors, may combine to decrease the Bank’s capital and require us to contribute additional capital to the Bank. Conversely, positive operational results, such as the sale of assets at value in excess of our amortized cost, expense savings programs and other factors may increase the Bank’s capital, thereby improving its regulatory capital ratios under OTS guidelines. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank was “well capitalized” under applicable capital requirements, including a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.1%. See Item 1 — “Business — Regulation and Supervision — United Western Bank’s Capital Requirements.” If our total risk-based capital ratio drops below 10.00% at any quarter, we would be classified as “adequately capitalized,” and could be subject to increased regulatory supervision and requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation, including resulting in an event of default under the Company’s senior credit agreement. Liquidity Risks Liquidity risk could impact our operations and our results of operations. If the Bank or Company were unable to borrow funds through access to the marketplace, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Liquidity is essential to our business. United Western Bank relies on processing and trust deposits, which, if one or more processing and trust relationship was terminated, such termination could negatively impact our liquidity, profitability and results of operations. A significant portion of the total deposits of our principal subsidiary, United Western Bank, are funds deposited as a result of unaffiliated processing and trust relationships maintained by the Bank. At December 31, 2009, four unaffiliated processing and trust relationships accounted for $1.04 billion, or 51.6%, of our total deposits, which includes custodial escrow deposits. Included in these four unaffiliated processing and trust relationships is one processing and trust relationship with a balance of $934 million at December 31, 2009, which accounts for 46.1% of the Bank’s total deposits at December 31, 2009. The Bank’s future success in retaining and attracting processing and trust depositors depends, in part, on its ability to offer competitive rates and services. With the unprecedented events in the financial markets in the United States over the past two years, deposit concentrations are an increasing risk to all depository institutions and to our company. Although our processing and trust deposit relationships are evidenced by an agreement between the Bank and the institution, some of the agreements may be terminated by the institution at any time, upon prior notice, for any reason. Further, an institution may elect not to renew the agreement or to terminate the deposit relationship for various reasons, including, but not limited to, if there is a serious impairment to the Bank’s financial condition or if the Bank fails to be well capitalized, adequately capitalized, or other covenants, including regulatory directives or agreements. If the Bank loses one or more of these processing and trust relationships, our liquidity, profitability and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. - 22 - Table of Contents Pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated April 7, 2009, Equity Trust Company and Sterling Administrative Services, LLC (“the Buyers”) purchased from us the assets of UW Trust associated with its self-directed individual retirement account and qualified employee benefit plan administration business. The Buyers, and their affiliate, Equity Administrative Services, Inc., have agreed to maintain all of their custodial deposits with the Bank for a three-year period. These deposits are included in the amounts set forth in the paragraph above. Notwithstanding the terms of the asset purchase agreement, if the Buyers transfer these deposits to another depository institution, our liquidity, profitability, and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. Effective January 15, 2010, the Company amended its credit agreement with its senior credit facility provider. The terms of the amendment provide, among other things: (i) for the extension of the maturity date from December 31, 2009 to June 30, 2010 (the note had a balance of $20 million at December 31, 2009); (ii) that the Company make a principal reduction payment on the note of $2.5 million upon execution of the amendment, which payment the Company has made, and another principal reduction payment on the note of $1.25 million on or before March 31, 2010. Additionally, the lender agrees to continue to forbear from declaring all outstanding amounts on the note to be immediately due and payable as a result of the Company and, United Western Bank each executing Informal Agreements with the OTS. The Company and one of its nonbank subsidiaries pledged certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities as additional collateral to the lender. Unless we further amend, or obtain a waiver under the senior credit facility, we will need to receive the written non-objection from the OTS to make the principal payment due at maturity. The Company intends to renew and extend the maturity of this debt, which will require the non-objection from the OTS and approval from its senior credit facility provider; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing the required non-objection and approval. In the event we fail to make such payments, or to comply with other restrictive debt covenants under our senior credit facility, we may not be able to obtain the necessary amendments or waivers, and our lender could accelerate the payment of all outstanding amounts due under that arrangement. In addition to the risk of non-payment described above, our ability to meet the nonperforming assets plus real estate owned ratio, or NPA Plus REO Ratio, contained in our senior credit facility and otherwise comply with our covenants may be affected by various events, including those that may be beyond our control. In addition to the financial covenants pertaining to the Bank maintaining its categorization as “well capitalized” as described in the OTS regulations, our financial covenants require that the Bank, at all times, maintain an NPA Plus REO Ratio of not greater than 6.50%, which the Bank complied with at December 31, 2009 (as the ratio was 5.73%). The NPA Plus REO Ratio means the ratio of the sum of nonperforming assets (less nonperforming assets guaranteed as to principal repayment by the U.S. government or one of its agencies) plus real estate owned, to the sum of total loans and repossessed assets plus real estate owned. Prospectively, we may not be able to continue to meet these and other ratios, tests and covenants. If we were to breach any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, in the future, it could result in an event of default, which would allow our lender to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lender accelerates the payment of our indebtedness, we may not be able to repay in full the amounts then outstanding. Further, as a result of any breach and during any cure period or negotiations to resolve a breach or expected breach, our lenders may refuse to make further loans to us, which could affect our liquidity and results of operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining waivers or entering into any such amendments, we could incur substantial costs in doing so, our borrowing costs could increase, and we may be subject to more restrictive covenants than the covenants under our existing facility. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. United Western Bank relies on wholesale funding sources for secondary and contingent liquidity sources. The Bank utilizes borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLBank, system, brokered certificates of deposits and repurchase agreements for secondary and contingent sources of liquidity. The Bank also has capacity to borrow from the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Also, from time to time, the Bank utilizes these sources to capitalize on market opportunities to fund investment and loan initiatives. To the extent such wholesale sources depend upon collateralized borrowings, declines in asset quality or the fair value of the underlying instruments could reduce our wholesale borrowing capacity. If the Bank were unable to obtain or maintain our access to funding or if adequate funding is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates, it would have to find alternative sources of liquidity, which, if available, would probably be at a higher cost and on terms that do not match the structure of our liabilities as well as the existing wholesale funding sources. In addition, our Company relies on wholesale bank funding for parent company funds. If such funds were not available from the banking sector, securing alternative funding could cause disruption to our business. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. - 23 - Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding indebtedness to FHLBank Topeka in the amount of $180 million. FHLBank Topeka currently limits our ability to pledge non-agency mortgage-backed securities as collateral against our borrowings from them to securities rated AA by at least one NRSRO. If the rating agencies were to downgrade any of the eligible securities that we have pledged to FHLBank Topeka to an unacceptable rating, our borrowing capacity would be reduced by $53.2 million as of December 31, 2009. If FHLBank Topeka reduced our borrowing capacity, and we were not able to replace the financing on similar terms, our liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. It may be difficult to secure replacement financing in the current credit markets. We are significantly dependent upon brokered deposits as a source of liquidity, and are currently under significant restrictions in our ability to use them in the future. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding brokered deposit balances in the amount of $575.6 million. Our Informal Agreement with the OTS prohibits us from increasing brokered deposits. Subsequent to year end, the OTS provided additional supervisory limitations on the Bank. These limitations restrict us from rolling over, renewing or entering into any new brokered deposits without the prior non-objection of the OTS. Based on factors such as our financial performance, the capital markets generally, and the increased regulatory supervision to which we are subject, we can offer no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these alternative sources of liquidity in a timely manner, if required. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had cash on hand of $586 million and since year end this has grown to over $1 billion, and thus the withdrawal of these balances will not have a material adverse impact on the Bank. If the OTS or FDIC were to impose further limitations on brokered deposits or classify other deposits as brokered, this could materially impact our liquidity. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is subject to our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries. We are a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We currently depend on our cash, mortgage-backed securities, credit facilities and liquidity as well as dividends from our subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses and service our debt. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will continue to have the capacity to pay us the necessary dividends to satisfy our obligations. In particular, the availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Currently, our Informal Agreement with the OTS prohibits the payment of dividends from the Bank to the Company. Depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, it is possible that the OTS could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. There can be no assurance of whether or when we will be able to cause the Bank to pay a dividend to the Company in the future. If the Bank or our other subsidiaries continue to be unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations, or if we are unable to access the marketplace to refinance our outstanding senior debt facility we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due or pay dividends on our common stock. Risks Associated with Non-Agency Mortgage Backed Securities Continued deterioration in the underlying performance of our investment securities backed by mortgage loans could create losses in our investment portfolio. Although we sold mortgage-backed securities on June 30, 2009 that represented 100% of our exposure to mortgage-backed securities collateralized by option-adjustable-rate mortgage loans, a majority of the Bank’s investment portfolio is comprised of securities where mortgages are the underlying collateral. These securities include agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. With the national downturn in residential real estate markets and the rising mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, investors are increasingly concerned about these types of securities, which have negatively impacted the prices of such securities in the marketplace. Continued negative trends in the loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities, as well as negative trends in home prices in the markets in which the collateral for these loans are located, negative trends in unemployment, and other macroeconomic factors, could all lead to additional material other-than-temporary impairment charges in the future. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a significant estimate and is susceptible to change prospectively. If credit losses on those loans were to exceed the subordinated tranches designed to credit-enhance our securities, we would not receive the full stated interest due on the securities or our full principal balance, or both. Our Company and the Bank own both senior and subordinated tranches of these securities. If we were to conclude there were unrealized losses which were other-than-temporary — which we evaluate, by among other factors, considering estimates of recoverability, as well as the duration and severity of the unrealized loss — we would be required under GAAP to reduce the carrying amount of the securities to fair value and record a corresponding charge to earnings for the portion determined to be due solely to credit, and reduce the remainder of the securities to fair value via a corresponding charge to other comprehensive income. The portion of the charge due to credit losses would also reduce our regulatory capital and negatively impact the Bank’s capital ratios. These negative impacts could significantly impair the Bank’s ability to borrow funds under credit arrangements, as well as negatively impact our material processing and trust depository arrangements and relationships. In addition, if the Bank determined it was more likely than not that it would sell a security or that it was more likely than not that it would be required to sell a security, such impairments would be realized through earnings as other-than-temporary impairments. - 24 - Table of Contents Temporary impairments on available for sale securities and the portion of impairments on held to maturity securities in which we have identified as other-than-temporary impairment that is not directly related to credit factors also reduce our book value per share as the changes in the value reduce shareholders’ equity. Although OTS regulations do not prescribe capital ratio levels for the Company per se, additional impairments could reduce capital levels further and below levels our management deems prudent. Many of the loans underlying the non-agency mortgage-backed securities we own have one or more characteristics increasing the risk of default by the borrowers. These characteristics include, among others, declining real estate values that have reduced the prices of many one-to-four family residences below the amount of the outstanding mortgage debt, limited underwriting documentation at mortgage origination which may have permitted borrowers to become mortgagors of obligations beyond their economic means, declining employment in the United States, and other factors. Declines in the credit and residential housing markets could result in further losses on our mortgage-backed securities. Credit markets in many sectors have experienced dramatic reductions in liquidity and increases in required returns by investors in credit-sensitive assets. These conditions began in 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market, but expanded in 2008 to include virtually all non-agency mortgage-backed securities and many other asset-backed markets. At December 31, 2009, approximately 13.7% of our assets were mortgage-backed securities and approximately 89.9% of those securities were non-agency securities. Recent transactions by distressed sellers, and expectations of further distressed sales, have exacerbated market discounts for mortgage-backed securities and generally removed the majority of typical participants from transactions in non-agency securities. As a result, it is difficult to determine fair values for those securities and would likely be difficult to sell securities in the current market at all. We estimate the fair value of the non-agency securities we own was below amortized cost, after giving effect to other-than-temporary impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2009, by approximately $65.4 million, or 21%, at December 31, 2009. Though the Company does not intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell the securities if it became necessary for us to sell non-agency securities, any sales would almost certainly be at a significant discount to par value which would have a negative effect on our operating results and capital position. Due to current market conditions, we may be unable to sell our non-agency mortgage-backed securities when or if required to meet capital demands. If any additional of the Bank’s subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities were to be downgraded below investment grade by one or more of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations, or NRSROs, which rate the securities, we could be required to maintain additional capital. We hold a number of subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities which were rated AAA by one or more NRSROs when the Bank acquired them. If any of these securities were to be downgraded two or more grades below investment grade by any one NRSRO, as described below, we will be required to maintain additional risk-based capital in support of such securities if the Bank elects to continue to hold such securities. The additional amount of risk-based capital required may be as great as the outstanding principal amount of the security. If this were to occur, and the Bank did not have enough risk-based capital to meet its required risk-based capital ratios, the Bank may have to raise additional capital or sell assets in order to maintain its required risk-based capital ratios. If additional capital was not available to the Bank when needed, the Bank would have to consider other alternatives for downgraded subordinate-tranche securities or implement other capital planning strategies to maintain its required capital ratios. These alternatives or other strategies could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. With the distress in the United States mortgage market ensuing since Spring 2008, many of our subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities, formerly rated investment grade, have been downgraded to two or more grades below investment grade by one or more NRSROs. As of December 31, 2009, we held subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost of $116.9 million, of which $42.8 million in amortized cost to us were rated investment grade or one grade below investment grade. With regard to the $42.8 million in amortized cost of subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities, we were required to maintain regulatory risk-based capital of $3.1 million to hold such securities at December 31, 2009. The remainder of our subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities, $74.1 million in amortized cost, were rated two or more grades below investment grade at December 31, 2009, and the Bank was required to maintain $65.8 million of regulatory risk-based capital in order to hold such securities and maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. - 25 - Table of Contents Subsequent to December 31, 2009, approximately $1.4 million of the $42.8 million of subordinate-tranche, non-agency mortgage-backed securities were downgraded to two or more grades below investment grade by at least one NRSRO. Assuming no other changes prior to December 31, 2009, this downgrade would have required the Bank to allocate an estimated $720,000 of additional capital to these securities in order to maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% at December 31, 2009. We are unable to predict with any degree of accuracy when or if any of our remaining subordinate-tranche, non-agency, mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost of $42.8 million may be downgraded to two or more grades below investment grade by any NRSRO. Any additional downgrades by the NRSROs to two or more grades below investment grade could cause us to fall below “well capitalized” status under applicable regulations, and have other material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to Lending Our allowance for credit losses may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, that represents the Company’s best estimate of probable inherent losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of our Company, is necessary to reserve for estimated credit losses and risks inherent in our loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects the Company’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio, and has been increasing as the economy worsens. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and inherent and as-yet-unidentified losses in the portfolio, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, the OTS periodically reviews our allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company. In light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for credit losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for credit losses in the future. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for credit losses. We cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for credit losses further or that the OTS will not require the Bank to increase its allowance, either of which could adversely affect our Company. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and hinder our ability to make payments on the outstanding obligations of our Company. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and a continued downturn in the economy within the markets we serve could significantly hurt our business and prospects for growth. Real estate lending (including commercial, construction, land development, and residential) remains a large portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio. These categories constituted $1.3 billion, or approximately 89% of the Bank’s total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Real estate values are generally affected by changes in economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax and other laws and acts of nature. A downturn in the real estate markets in which the Bank originates, purchases and services mortgage and other loans could hurt our business because these loans are secured by real estate. In addition, even though the Bank’s real property collateral is currently located throughout the United States, we believe that the amount of such collateral in Colorado, which at December 31, 2009 was $798 million, or 55% of our total loan portfolio, is likely to increase as a result of our community banking strategy. A continuation of the downturn in the real estate markets where the Bank has loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current market conditions include an over-supply of land, lots, and finished homes in many markets including those where we do business. At December 31, 2009, approximately 11.0% of our assets were single-family mortgage loans. We had approximately $3.9 million of nonperforming, single-family mortgage loans in our held for investment portfolio and $9.8 million of nonperforming single-family mortgage loans in our held for sale portfolio at December 31, 2009. If housing markets in our market areas continue to deteriorate, we may experience a further increase in nonperforming loans, provisions for credit losses, charges to reduce the carrying value of loans held for sale to the lower of cost or fair value, and charge-offs. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets, products or other segments of our loan and securities portfolio might ultimately be affected, these factors could adversely affect our ability to grow our earning assets or affect our results of operations. - 26 - Table of Contents The residential and commercial real estate sectors of the U.S. economy experienced an economic slowdown that has continued in 2009. Specifically, the values of residential and commercial real estate located in our market areas have declined, and these declines may continue in the future. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then we may not be able to realize the full value of the collateral that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for credit losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risk related to our concentration of construction and land development and commercial real estate loans. As of December 31, 2009, we had $251 million of construction loans and $92 million of land development loans, of which $295 million, or 86% of the aggregate of such loans, are for projects located in Colorado. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: • the viability of the contractor; • the value of the project being subject to successful completion; • the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans may involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project rather than the ability of a borrower or guarantor to repay the loan and also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. Our practice, in the majority of instances, is to secure the personal guaranty of individuals in support of our real estate construction loans which provides us with an additional source of repayment. At December 31, 2009, we had ten nonperforming construction and development loans that totaled $21.7 million and another $11.7 million of assets that have been foreclosed. If one or more of our larger borrowers were to default on their construction and development loans, and we did not have alternative sources of repayment through personal guarantees or other sources, or if any of the aforementioned risks were to occur, we could incur significant losses. At December 31, 2009, we had $519.6 million of commercial real estate loans. Bank regulatory authorities have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios to remind banks that their risk the Company practices and capital levels should be commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentration risk. Banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans are expected to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher levels of allowances for credit losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. If there is deterioration in our commercial real estate portfolio or if the OTS concludes that we have not implemented appropriate risk management policies and practices, it could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. The mortgage loans that the Bank holds are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. The residential and commercial mortgage loans held in the Bank’s loan portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss of principal and interest. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower. In addition, other factors that affect the risk of our mortgage loan portfolio include: • property location and condition; • competition and demand for comparable properties; • changes in zoning laws for the property or its surrounding area; • environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • increases in interest rates and/or real estate tax rates; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation and tax laws; and • other events such as acts of God, natural disasters, war, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. - 27 - Table of Contents In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy, as determined by the bankruptcy court. The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Prospectively, it is possible there will be changes in bankruptcy laws, as well as other rules and regulations that impact delinquent mortgage loan borrowers that could negatively impact the total recovery we realize on mortgage loans. The Bank has invested in loan portfolios, pooled securities and mortgage-backed obligations, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk. The Bank’s asset portfolio contains large portfolios of single-family residential loans acquired through bulk purchases and purchased SBA loans and pools. Our investment portfolio largely consists of mortgage-backed securities primarily secured by pools of mortgages on single-family residences. When the Bank acquires such mortgage-backed securities and loans, we anticipate that the underlying notes will prepay at a projected rate, thereby generating an expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase as interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Some of the Bank’s mortgage-backed securities and many of our bulk single-family loan purchases and purchased SBA loans and pools were acquired at a premium purchase price. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, we will write-off such premiums when necessary due to loan prepayments with respect to our held for sale loan portfolio and amortize such premiums over the expected lives of our mortgage-backed securities and loans held for investment. If the underlying assets that the Bank acquired or that secure our mortgage-backed securities prepays more rapidly than anticipated, we would have to write-off or amortize the premium on an accelerated basis, which would adversely affect our profitability. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. The Bank attempts to minimize its credit risk with prudent loan application approval procedures, including an analysis of the credit risk, a valuation of the underlying collateral, monitoring of loan concentration within specific industries and geographic locations and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review and audit departments. Nevertheless, we are exposed to significant credit risks, including possible errors in the Bank’s credit analysis, the uncertainty of the borrower’s ability to repay the loans, the uncertainty of future economic conditions and the possibility of loan defaults. Other Risks Related to our Business Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased and could increase further, which could have a material adverse impact on earnings in the future. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the FDIC to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured depository institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These developments will cause the premiums assessed on us by the FDIC to increase and materially increase our noninterest expense. Our FDIC insurance related costs were $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.0 million and $818,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods, including whether and when additional special assessments will occur, in the event the economic crisis continues. We also participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLGP assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP program upon depository institution holding companies as well. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense for the foreseeable future. - 28 - Table of Contents Our business is subject to interest rate risk. Our Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: • our Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; • the fair value of our Company’s financial assets and liabilities; • the average duration of our Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio; and • other mortgage and servicing assets If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although our management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Continued declines in interest rates would likely hurt our earnings. The decline in market interest rates that occurred in 2008 and in particular in the fourth quarter of 2008 that continued into 2009 negatively impacted our net interest income. While we believe that the continued implementation of our community bank business plan, and its expected change in asset and liability mix, will partially mitigate the impact of lower market rates, any additional declines in interest rates are expected to have a negative impact on net interest income, net interest spread, net interest margin, and overall results of operations. As a savings bank, pursuant to the Home Owners’ Loan Act, or HOLA, the Bank is required to maintain a certain percentage of its total assets in HOLA-qualifying loans and investments, which limits our asset mix and could significantly restrict our ability to sell certain assets to obtain liquidity. A savings bank or thrift differs from a commercial bank in that it is required to maintain at least 65% of its total assets in HOLA-qualifying loans and investments, such as loans for the purchase, refinance, construction, improvement, or repair of residential real estate, home equity loans, educational loans and small business loans. To maintain our thrift charter we have to pass the Qualified Thrift Lender test, or QTL test, in 9 out of 12 of the immediately preceding months. The QTL test limits the extent to which we can grow our commercial loan portfolio. However, a loan that does not exceed $2 million (including a group of loans to one borrower) and is for commercial, corporate, business, or agricultural purposes is not so limited. We may be limited in our ability to change our asset mix and increase the yield on our earning assets by growing our commercial loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009, the Bank complied with the QTL test. In addition, if we continue to grow our commercial loan portfolio and our single-family loan portfolio declines, it is possible that in order to maintain our QTL status, we could be forced to buy mortgage-backed securities or other HOLA-qualifying assets at times when the terms might not be attractive. Alternatively, we could find it necessary to pursue different structures, including converting the Bank’s thrift charter to a commercial bank charter. Our quarterly results may fluctuate. Our financial results are subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as a result of, among other things, our loan production, opening of new branch locations, development of new products and services, premium amortization caused by prepayments of certain assets, such as our single-family mortgage loans, guaranteed SBA loans and pooled securities and changes in interest rates. Our operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, economic conditions in the financial industry, the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of operations, the introduction of new services by us or our competitors and the mix of services sold. In response to a changing competitive environment, we may elect from time-to-time to make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or enter into strategic alliances or make investments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Accordingly, our results of operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any succeeding quarter or for the full fiscal year. - 29 - Table of Contents If we sell mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and the underlying loan defaults, we may be liable to the purchaser for unpaid principal and interest on the loan. In the ordinary course of selling mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and in accordance with industry standards, we make certain representations and warranties to purchasers. If a loan defaults and there has been a breach of representations or warranties and we have no recourse against a third party, we may become liable for the unpaid principal and interest on the defaulted loan. In such a case, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the loan. When we purchased mortgage servicing rights or mortgage loans, we also may have been exposed to liability to the extent that an originator or other seller of the servicing rights is unable to honor its representations and warranties to us. Our Company has established a reserve for repurchases that may be required in connection with loans we originated and sold in connection with the sale of our production platform in 2003. Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect our SBA business. The Bank’s small business department relies on originating, purchasing, pooling and selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the SBA. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans for a period of time. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or legislation may discontinue or change the programs. If changes occur, the volumes of loans that qualify for government guarantees could decline, which could in turn reduce the profitability of the Bank’s small business department. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities. If we foreclose and take title to real estate, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Failure in our automated systems and controls could subject us to increased operating or other liabilities. We depend heavily upon our automated systems and controls for our business and operations. These systems and controls support the evaluation, acquisition, monitoring, collection and administration of our loan and servicing portfolios, depository, general accounting and other management functions. The failure of the automated systems, including a failure of data integrity or accuracy, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and deter potential customers. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. A failure of such security measures could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Breaches of our computer and network security systems may result in customer information being compromised and/or identity theft. We maintain personal and financial information about our current, past and potential customers on our computer systems and network infrastructure, such as customer names, addresses, social security numbers, tax identification numbers, bank account numbers, information on loan applications and other sensitive personal and financial information. In addition, our customers may use the Internet to connect to the Bank’s website to retrieve information about their accounts and to conduct online transactions, such as online bill payments. If the security of our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure responsible for storing our customers’ personal and financial data and information or the security of our online banking Internet services is breached, then customer information could be stolen and misused. Such misuse could include the loss of privacy resulting from the disclosure of the information to third parties, credit fraud or other consequences of identity theft to the customer. While we believe that our current encrypted systems meet or exceed all commercial standards for network security, new criminal schemes or capabilities could compromise or breach our systems and network infrastructure. If our security measures fail to protect our customer’s information, our existing and future customer base may be adversely affected, we may become subject to customer claims or lawsuits, our public image may be diminished, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. - 30 - Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations and the regulatory environment. In June 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or Treasury, issued a “white paper” containing several federal legislative proposals that, if enacted into law, would make substantial changes to the present U.S. financial services regulatory framework. One legislative proposal would eliminate the OTS and the federal savings bank or “thrift” charter, subject to “reasonable transition arrangements.” One of these transition arrangements might involve conversion of the federal thrift charter into a national bank charter, which would result in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (or successor thereto) having principal regulatory and supervisory authority over former thrift institutions. The Bank conducts its business pursuant to a federal thrift charter. In response to the U.S. Treasury Department’s proposal, various bills were introduced by the Financial Services Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives, which were ultimately consolidated into the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in December 2009. Among other things, this legislation establishes a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to regulate products like home mortgages, car loans and credit cards, and consolidates the OTS into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. As with the U.S. Treasury Department’s proposal, under the House legislation savings institution holding companies would be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. In November 2009, Senate Banking Chairman Christopher Dodd introduced a financial regulatory reform bill entitled the Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2009 which further builds on the Treasury proposal. That legislation, if enacted, would remove bank and bank holding company regulatory powers from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, eliminate both the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and establish a single bank and bank holding company regulator known as the Financial Institutions Regulatory Administration. Under this proposal, savings and loan holding companies that were regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision would become subject to supervision and regulation by this new regulator. The Senate bill would also establish an independent Consumer Financial Protection Agency, under which consumer protection responsibilities currently handled by the bank and credit union regulators and the Federal Trade Commission would be consolidated. Although it is impossible to predict which of these proposals, if any, may be adopted by the full Congress and signed into law, these pending proposals may significantly affect the Company and the Bank. If the reforms contained in the U.S. Treasury Department or House Financial Service Committee proposals are fully enacted, the Company would become a bank holding company subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as opposed to the Office of Thrift Supervision, and we expect we would become subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulations, including holding company capital requirements, that the Company is not subject to as a savings and loan holding company. Holding company capital requirements could reduce capital available for dividends and share repurchases. In addition, under the reforms contained in the Senate proposal, the Company would become subject to supervision and regulation by the Financial Institutions Regulatory Administration, a new federal regulatory agency. Compliance with new regulations and being supervised by one or more new regulatory agencies could increase our expenses and affect the conduct of our business. In addition, the proposals could lead to heightened restrictions being placed upon institutions and activities that increase systemic risk. Such restrictions would likely relate to liquidity, capital, and leverage requirements. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in supervisory policies or examination procedures of banking regulators, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, the Treasury, the FHLBank System, the United States Congress, the Texas Department of Banking, or other federal or state regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, bank regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for credit losses, require changes in other significant accounting estimates including the determination of the fair value of assets and other-than-temporary impairment. Additionally, bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and their holding companies for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the agency. Possible enforcement actions against us could include the issuance of a cease-and-desist order that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the appointment of a conservator or receiver, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. - 31 - Table of Contents Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Truth-in-Saving Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and Colorado’s deceptive trade practices act. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. We are subject to federal and state income tax regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we have engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, gross receipts, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law “ownership change.” As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $80 million of net unrealized built in losses (“NUBIL”), which for tax purposes represent the amount by which the adjusted tax basis of our assets exceeds their fair market value. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to use its NUBIL and other tax attributes, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, when it undergoes a 50% “ownership change” over a designated testing period (not to exceed three years). We regularly monitor ownership changes (as calculated for purposes of Section 382) based on available information and, as of December 31, 2009, our analysis indicated that we were below the 50% ownership change threshold that would limit our ability to utilize our NUBIL and other tax attributes. However, taking into account the common stock offerings in 2009, we expect we are close to the 50% ownership change level. As a result, any future transaction or transactions and the timing of such transaction or transactions could trigger an ownership change under Section 382. Such transactions may include, but are not limited to, additional repurchases or issuances of common stock, or acquisitions or sales of shares of our stock by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold or may accumulate in the future 5% or more of our outstanding common stock (“5% Holders”) for their own account. If an ownership change were to occur for purposes of Section 382, we would be required to calculate an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that may be offset by losses arising from the recognition of NUBIL or other tax attributes which existed at the time of such ownership change. That limitation would apply to built in losses recognized during a five-year period after the date of the ownership change. The annual limitation would be calculated based upon the fair market value of our equity at the time of such ownership change, multiplied by a federal long-term tax exempt rate (currently 4.03%), and the annual restriction could eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our NUBIL or other tax attributes to offset future taxable income. UW Trust Company is subject to regulation as a trust company and could be the subject of third party actions. As a Texas chartered trust company, UW Trust is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Texas Department of Banking. UW Trust’s activities are limited by applicable law generally to acting as a trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or agent for the performance of any lawful act, and to accumulate money when authorized under applicable law. UW Trust has been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to claims by third parties regarding breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, or similar claims alleging violation of duty or law. While we believe applicable law supports our view of UW Trust’s duties, or lack thereof, in that regard, there can be no assurances that we will prevail in any litigation or other proceeding challenging the matter. Significant legal actions could subject our Company to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to various legal claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including potential supervisory actions by our Company’s regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Business Strategy We may be unable to fully implement our community banking business strategy. We are 48 months into our community bank transition, and in order to complete the execution of this strategy we must, among other things: • attract sufficient commercial business and community bank deposits; • attract and maintain business banking relationships with businesses in the markets in which we serve; • attract and retain experienced and successful commercial and community bankers; • identify and pursue suitable opportunities for opening new branches in the Colorado Front Range and selected mountain community markets; • maintain adequate regulatory capital and comply with applicable federal and state regulations; and • originate community bank loans and maintain adequate asset quality. - 32 - Table of Contents Failure to achieve these strategic goals could adversely affect our ability to fully implement our community banking business strategies as well as our overall financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our proposed growth. Our business strategy contemplates, in part, an increase in our franchise value by expanding into additional communities in the Colorado Front Range and selected mountain communities through a branch network for the Bank. To the extent that we undertake additional branch openings, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from our expansion efforts for a period of time. We may acquire or lease other sites for future expansion. While we are committed to this strategy, our expansion could significantly burden our infrastructure or we may be unable to manage this growth. In addition, we may enter new lines of business or pursue other strategies intended to complement our community banking business plan implementation. To the extent we undertake such actions, we may experience higher operating costs and these new activities may not be successful. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our business strategy requires us to attract and to retain management experienced in community banking and financial services that live in the communities we serve. Our ability to retain our existing executive officers, regional presidents, and community banking staff is important to the successful implementation of our strategy. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse economic conditions in the Colorado Front Range and our mountain community markets could impair the execution of our business strategy. The success of our business strategy depends primarily on the general economic conditions in our markets because local economic conditions will materially affect commercial real estate, including construction and land development, and residential loans originated, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading volume of our stock is low. The low trading volume in our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Market means that our shares may have less liquidity than other publicly traded companies. We cannot ensure that the volume of trading in our common shares will increase in the future. Furthermore, to the extent shares are concentrated in a relatively small group of holders, a seller could be subject to significant adverse price volatility and price fluctuation. At December 31, 2009, based on filings made by third parties with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we believe that eleven holders owned 47.3% of our outstanding common stock. This includes shares held by our Chairman of the Board, Guy A. Gibson, who owns 1,335,305 shares, or 4.55% of our outstanding common stock. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may cause dilution and other risks. Our board of directors may authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred stock in connection with future equity offerings, acquisitions of securities or assets of other companies or to be used as compensation for our executive officers. Furthermore, there are significant implementation risks associated with the acquisition and integration of another entity into our Company that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our board may also classify or reclassify any unissued preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of preferred stock with preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters. In any event, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock could be dilutive to shareholders who do not invest in future offerings. Moreover, to the extent that we issue options, warrants or similar instruments to purchase our common stock in the future and those options, warrants or similar instruments are exercised or we issue restricted stock which subsequently vests, our shareholders may experience future dilution. - 33 - Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, including some that are beyond our control and that may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include the following: • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts who cover our common stock; • variations in our quarterly operating results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be competitors or similar to us; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our shareholders or the incurrence of additional debt; and • changes in general economic and market conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 