Item 1A. Risk Factors CHANGING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND THE GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF OUR MARKETS MAY UNFAVORABLY IMPACT US. Our operations are concentrated in eleven counties in North/Central and Central Ohio. As a result of this geographic concentration in contiguous markets, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or more of these markets could result in one or more of the following: - an increase in loan delinquencies; - an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; - a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and - a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE INTEREST RATE RISKS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR NET INTEREST INCOME. Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect interest income and interest expense. We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, certain assets and liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. For example, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind. Some of our assets, such as adjustable rate mortgages, have features that restrict changes in their interest rates, including rate caps. 19 Table of Contents Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. Some of these factors include: • inflation; • recession; • unemployment; • money supply; • international disorders; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in interest rates may affect the level of voluntary prepayments on the Corporation’s loans and may also affect the level of financing or refinancing by customers. Although the Corporation pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on its profitability. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA MAY REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN DEPOSITS AND ORIGINATE LOANS. We face competition both in originating loans and in attracting deposits. We compete for clients by offering excellent service and competitive rates on our loans and deposit products. The type of institutions we compete with include large regional financial institutions, community banks, thrifts and credit unions operating within the Corporation’s market area. Nontraditional sources of competition for loan and deposit dollars come from captive auto finance companies, mortgage banking companies, internet banks, brokerage companies, insurance companies and direct mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we offer. In addition, to stay competitive in our markets we may need to adjust the interest rates on our products to match the rates offered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. As a result, our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas while achieving our investment objectives. OUR BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS GENERALLY. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility for much of 2008. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our businesses: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A further impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of clients who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. OUR PARTICIPATION IN THE U.S. TREASURY’S CPP IMPOSES RESTRICTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS ON THE CORPORATION THAT LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE DIVIDENDS, REPURCHASE SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND ACCESS EQUITY CAPITAL MARKETS. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Corporation issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of its Capital Purchase Program (CPP). Prior to January 25, 2012, 20 Table of Contents unless the Corporation has redeemed all of the preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to the current quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share without prior regulatory approval, and limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In addition, unless the Corporation redeems the preferred stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase from 5% to 9%. Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE AND RELATED MARKETS AND THE ECONOMY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States, including Ohio, has been negatively impacted by several economic factors, including increasing rates and payments on adjustable-rate mortgages, decreasing housing values and increased credit standards for borrowers. As a result, delinquencies, foreclosures and loses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans have increased and may continue to increase. Additionally, the lower housing prices and appraisal values may result in additional delinquencies and loan losses. While the residential real estate loans held in our portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards and do not include sub-prime loans, we do originate and hold fixed- and adjustable-rate loans and residential construction loans. If the residential loan market continues to deteriorate, especially in Ohio and our local markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. THE ENACTMENT OF EESA AND ARRA MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATION, LIQUIDITY OR STOCK PRICE. EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, Treasury established the CPP to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our Common Shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents FEDERAL AND STATE GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT LAWS RESPONSIVE TO THE CURRENT CREDIT CONDITIONS THAT WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COLLECT ON LOANS. Federal or state governments might adopt legislation or regulations reducing the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. Additionally, legislation has been proposed to give judges the ability to adjust the principal and interest payments on mortgages to allow homeowners to avoid foreclosure. Such adjustments could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. FDIC INSURANCE PREMIUMS MAY INCREASE MATERIALLY, NEGATIVELY AFFECTING OUR PROFITABILITY. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including Citizens. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC insures payment of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In late 2008, the FDIC announced an increase in insurance premium rates of seven basis points for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC announced its adoption of an interim final rule imposing a special assessment of 10 basis points and a final rule adjusting the risk-based calculation used to determine the premiums due from each financial institution. Management of FCBC expects that the special assessment and the changes to the premium calculation could increase FCBC’s insurance expense in 2009 significantly. Future increases may be announced, which would negatively affect our net income. CONCERN OF CUSTOMERS OVER DEPOSIT INSURANCE MAY CAUSE A DECREASE IN DEPOSITS AT CITIZENS. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from Citizens in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at Citizens is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. LEGISLATIVE OR REGULATORY CHANGES OR ACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, not to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this annual report under the heading “Supervision and Regulation.” TRADING IN OUR COMMON SHARES IS VERY LIMITED, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TIME AND THE PRICE AT WHICH YOU CAN SELL YOUR CORPORATION COMMON SHARES. Although the common shares of the Corporation are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in the Corporation’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. The price at which you may be able to sell your 22 Table of Contents common shares may be significantly lower than the price at which you could buy Corporation common shares at that time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Corporation has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2008 fiscal year and that remained unresolved. 