Item 1A. Risk Factors CHANGING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND THE GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF FIRST CITIZENS’ MARKETS MAY UNFAVORABLY IMPACT FIRST CITIZENS. The operations of the Corporation are concentrated in seven counties in North Central Ohio. As a result of this geographic concentration in contiguous markets, the Corporation’s results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or more of these markets could result in one or more of the following: - an increase in loan delinquencies; - an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; - a decrease in the demand for the Corporation’s products and services; and - a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. 16 Table of Contents THE CORPORATION MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE INTEREST RATE RISKS, WHICH COULD REDUCE ITS NET INTEREST INCOME. The Corporation’s results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect interest income and interest expense. The Corporation has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s profitability. In addition, certain assets and liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. For example, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind. Some of the Corporation’s assets, such as adjustable rate mortgages, have features that restrict changes in their interest rates, including rate caps. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation’s control. Some of these factors include: - inflation; - recession; - unemployment; - money supply; - international disorders; and - instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in interest rates may affect the level of voluntary prepayments on the Corporation’s loans and may also affect the level of financing or refinancing by customers. Although the Corporation pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on its profitability. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA MAY REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN DEPOSITS AND ORIGINATE LOANS. We face competition both in originating loans and in attracting deposits. We compete for clients by offering excellent service and competitive rates on our loans and deposit products. The type of institutions we compete with include large regional financial institutions, community banks, thrifts and credit unions operating within the Corporation’s market area. A growing nontraditional source of competition for loan and deposit dollars comes from captive auto finance companies, mortgage banking companies, internet banks, brokerage companies, insurance companies and direct mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we offer. In addition, to stay competitive in our markets we may need to adjust the interest rates on our products to match the rates offered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. As a result, our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas while achieving our investment objectives. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Corporation has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remained unresolved. 