Item 1A. Risk Factors From time to time, information provided by us, statements made by our employees or information included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Form 10-K) may contain statements that are not historical facts, so-called “forward-looking statements,” which involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “plans,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “believe” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. Our actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline. Some of the factors that affect our quarterly and annual results, but which are difficult to control or predict, are: We have incurred significant net losses. Our net losses have been considerable for the past several years. Due to current economic conditions, we expect that our revenues will continue to fluctuate in the future and there is no assurance that we will attain positive net earnings in the future. Our net revenues may continue to fluctuate. Due to current economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of VLSI semiconductor devices, it has become increasingly difficult for us to predict the purchasing activities of our customers and we expect that our net revenues will continue to fluctuate in the future. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules, and customer orders typically can be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to our customers. Because we do not have substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Future fluctuations to our operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our foundries, we may order inventory and materials in advance of anticipated customer demand, which might result in excess inventory levels if the expected orders fail to materialize. As a result, we cannot predict the timing and amount of shipments to our customers, and any significant downturn in customer demand for our products would reduce our quarterly and annual operating results. We continue to have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we have approximately $25.0 million in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding in the form of our 5.45% Convertible Notes due September 30, 2010 (“2010 Notes”). In addition to this indebtedness, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our 2010 Notes; 14 • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the 2010 Notes. The terms of our 2010 Notes permit the holders thereof to voluntarily convert their notes at any time into a certain number of shares of our common stock. We are using our available cash and cash equivalents each quarter to fund our operations, investments and financing activities. We anticipate that we will use approximately $4.4 million in cash and cash equivalents during the first quarter of 2008 to fund our operations, investments and interest payments on debt. However, we believe that we have adequate cash and cash equivalents to fund its operations, investments and to meet our debt obligations through at least December 31, 2008. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. If our cash, cash equivalents and operating cash flows are inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the 2010 Notes or our other obligations, we would be in default under their respective terms. This would permit the holders of the 2010 Notes and our other obligations to accelerate their respective maturities and could also cause defaults under any future indebtedness we may incur. Any such default or cross default would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we cannot be sure that we would be able to repay amounts due in respect of the 2010 Notes if payment of those notes were to be accelerated following the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the 2010 Notes indenture. We may seek to reduce our indebtedness by issuing equity securities, thereby causing dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interests. We may from time to time seek to exchange our 2010 Notes for shares of our common stock or other securities. These exchanges may take different forms, including exchange offers or privately negotiated transactions. As a result of shares of our common stock or other securities being issued upon such conversion or pursuant to such exchanges, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution of their ownership interest. If we seek to secure additional financing we may not be able to do so. If we are able to secure additional financing our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest or we may be subject to limitations on our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures, we may need to raise additional funds. However, events in the future may require us to seek additional capital and, if so required, that capital may not be available on terms favorable or acceptable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be limited in our success, as the terms of the 2010 Notes restrict our ability to issue debt that is senior to or pari passu with the 2010 Notes, without the consent of the holders of the 2010 Notes. The terms of the 2010 Notes include voluntary conversion provisions upon which shares of our common stock would be issued. As a result of these shares of our common stock being issued, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest. 15 Our stock may be delisted on NASDAQ. On January 28, 2008, we received notification from the NASDAQ Listing Qualification Department providing notification that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). We, in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), have been provided 180 calendar days, or until July 23, 2008, to regain compliance. To regain compliance, the bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days at any time before July 23, 2008. If we do not regain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) by July 23, 2008, we will be notified that our securities will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ’s determination to delist our securities to a Listing Qualification Panel. Alternatively, we could at that time apply to transfer our securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for initial inclusion set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c). If that application were approved, we would be afforded the remainder of a second 180 calendar day grace period by the NASDAQ Global Market in order to regain compliance while on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On February 29, 2008 the price of our shares was $0.65. We cannot be sure that our price will comply with the requirements for continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market, or that any appeal of a decision to delist our common stock will be successful. If our common stock loses its status on The NASDAQ Global Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, shares of our common stock would likely trade in the over-the-counter market bulletin board, commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” If our stock were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. Such delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market or future declines in our stock price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to stockholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. Our Board of Directors may elect to exercise its discretion to affect a reverse stock split. There are risks and uncertainties inherent in a reverse stock split. By resolution approved by our stockholders at the annual meeting of stockholders held on May 24, 2007, our Board of Directors has the authority, in its sole discretion, to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at any time prior to the date of our annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008 at a ratio between one for two and one for twenty as selected by the Board of Directors. In addition, notwithstanding approval of the reverse stock split by the stockholders, the Board of Directors may choose, in its sole discretion, not to affect a reverse stock split without further approval or action by or prior notice to the stockholders. There can be no assurance that any increase in the market price for our common stock resulting from a reverse stock split, if approved and implemented, would be sustainable since there are numerous factors and contingencies that would effect such price, including the market conditions for our common stock at the time, our reported results of operations in future periods and general economic, geopolitical, stock market and industry conditions. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of our common stock after a reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before such reverse stock split and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may not exceed or remain higher than the market price prior to such reverse stock split. Further, there can be no assurance that after a reverse stock split, we would continue to meet the minimum listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market. 16 While a higher share price may help generate investor interest in our common stock, there can be no assurance that a reverse stock split would result in a per share market price that attracts institutional investors or investment funds, or that such price would satisfy the investing guidelines of institutional investors or investment funds. As a result, the trading liquidity of our common stock may not improve as a result of a reverse stock split. Furthermore, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares of our common stock that would be outstanding after the reverse stock split. Our stock price is volatile. The market for securities for communication semiconductor companies, including our Company, has been highly volatile. The market sale price of our common stock has fluctuated between a low of $0.21 and a high of $74.69 during the period from June 19, 1995 to December 31, 2007. It is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate widely in the future. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: • responses to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • current market conditions in the telecommunications and data communications equipment markets; and • changes in earnings estimates by analysts. We may have to further restructure our business. We may have to make further restructuring changes if we do not achieve a substantial increase in revenues. We anticipate that shipments of our products to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenues. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our total net revenues in any particular period. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, shipments to our top five customers, including sales to distributors, accounted for approximately 44% and 45% of our total net revenues, respectively. We expect that a limited number of customers may account for a substantial portion of our total net revenues for the foreseeable future. Some of the following may reduce our total net revenues or adversely affect our business: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • development by one or more of our significant customers of other sources of supply for current or future products; • loss of one or more of our current customers or a disruption in our sales and distribution channels; and • failure of one or more of our significant customers to make timely payment of our invoices. We cannot be certain that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will return to the levels of previous periods or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from any of our significant customers. The cyclical nature of the communication semiconductor industry affects our business. In 2006, the industry was marked by a number of high profile mergers and acquisitions both by service providers as well as by equipment manufacturers. Communication service providers, internet service providers, regional Bell operating companies and inter-exchange carriers continue to closely monitor their capital expenditures. Spending on voice-only equipment remains slow while spending on equipment providing the efficient transport of data services on existing infrastructure appears to be slowly recovering. Demand for new, high bandwidth applications such as video conferencing, broadband audio and telephone is placing an increased burden on existing public network infrastructure. We cannot be certain that the market for our products will not decline in the future. 17 Our international business operations expose us to a variety of business risks. Foreign markets are a significant part of our net product revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 foreign shipments accounted for approximately 79% and 75%, respectively of our total net product and services revenues. We expect foreign markets to continue to account for a significant percentage of our total net product revenues. A significant portion of our total net product revenues will, therefore, be subject to risks associated with foreign markets, including the following: • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and policy changes affecting the telecommunications and data communications markets; • changes in tariffs; • exchange rates, currency controls and other barriers; • political and economic instability; • risk of terrorism; • difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • difficulties in managing distributors and representatives; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; • natural disasters; • seasonality of customer buying patterns; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Although substantially all of our total net product revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies also may reduce our total net revenues from foreign customers. With the acquisition of our Israeli operations and the expansion of our India Design Center a substantial amount of our costs are denominated in Israeli shekels and the Indian rupee. To the extent that we further expand our international operations or change our pricing practices to denominate prices in foreign currencies, we will expose our margins to increased risks of currency fluctuations. Our net product revenues depend on the success of our customers’ products, and our design wins do not necessarily generate revenues in a timely fashion. Our customers generally incorporate our new products into their products or systems at the design stage. However, customer decisions to use our products (design wins), which can often require significant expenditures by us without any assurance of success, often precede the generation of production revenues, if any, by a year or more. Some customer projects are canceled, and thus will not generate revenues for our products. In addition, even after we achieve a design win, a customer may require further design changes. Implementing these design changes can require significant expenditures of time and expense by us in the development and pre-production process. Moreover, the value of any design win will largely depend upon the commercial success of the customer’s product and on the extent to which the design of the customer’s systems accommodates components manufactured by our competitors. We cannot ensure that we will continue to achieve design wins in customer products that achieve market acceptance. Further, most revenue-generating design wins take several years to translate into meaningful revenues. 18 We must successfully transition to new process technologies to remain competitive. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop products that utilize new process technologies. Semiconductor design and process methodologies are subject to rapid technological change and require large expenditures for research and development. We currently manufacture our products using 0.8, 0.5, 0.35, 0.25, 0.18 and 0.13 micron complementary metal oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) processes and a 1.0 micron bipolar CMOS (“BiCMOS”) process. We continuously evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in transitioning to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered increased costs, reduced yields or delays in product deliveries. We believe that transitioning our products to smaller geometry process technologies will be important for us to remain competitive. We cannot be certain that we can make such a transition successfully, if at all, without delay or inefficiencies. Our success depends on the timely development of new products, and we face risks of product development delays. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new VLSI devices and software for existing and new markets. The development of these new devices and software is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development of new products. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including the following: • accurate new product definition; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • availability of foundry capacity; • achievement of manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. Our success also depends upon our ability to do the following: • build products to applicable standards; • develop products that meet customer requirements; • adjust to changing market conditions as quickly and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully; • introduce new products that achieve market acceptance; and • develop reliable software to meet our customers’ application needs in a timely fashion. In addition, we cannot ensure that the systems manufactured by our customers will be introduced in a timely manner or that such systems will achieve market acceptance. We sell a range of products that each has a different gross profit. Our total gross profits will be adversely affected if most of our shipments are of products with low gross profits. We currently sell more than 50 products. Some of our products have a high gross profit while others do not. If our customers decide to buy more of our products with low gross profits and fewer of our products with high gross profits, our total gross profits could be adversely affected. We plan our mix of products based on our internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. 19 The price of our products tends to decrease over the lives of our products. Historically, average selling prices in the communication semiconductor industry have decreased over the life of a product, and, as a result, the average selling prices of our products may decrease in the future. Decreases in the price of our products would adversely affect our operating results. Our customers are increasingly more focused on price, as semiconductor products become more prevalent in their equipment. We may have to decrease our prices to remain competitive in some situations, which may negatively impact our gross margins. Our success depends on the rate of growth of the global communications infrastructure. We derive virtually all of our total net revenues from products for telecommunications and data communications applications. These markets are characterized by the following: • susceptibility to seasonality of customer buying patterns; • subject to general business cycles; • intense competition; • rapid technological change; and • short product life cycles. We anticipate that these markets will continue to experience significant volatility in the near future. Our products must successfully include industry standards to remain competitive. Products for telecommunications and data communications applications are based on industry standards, which are continually evolving. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards, which could render our existing products unmarketable or obsolete. If the telecommunications or data communications markets evolve to new standards, we cannot be certain that we will be able to design and manufacture new products successfully that address the needs of our customers and include the new standards or that such new products will meet with substantial market acceptance. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have historically agreed to indemnify our customers for certain costs and damages of intellectual property rights in circumstances where one of our products is the factor creating the customer’s infringement exposure. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers. In some instances, our products are designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards. These international standards are often covered by patent rights held by third parties, which may include our competitors. The costs of obtaining licenses from holders of patent rights essential to such international standards could be high. The cost of not obtaining such licenses could also be high if a holder of such patent rights brings a claim for patent infringement. We are not aware of any claimed violations on our part. However, we cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We continue to expense our new product process development costs when incurred. In the past, we have incurred significant new product and process development costs because our policy is to expense these costs, including tooling, fabrication and pre-production expenses, at the time that they are incurred. We may continue to incur these types of expenses in the future. These additional expenses will have a material and adverse effect on our operating results in future periods 20 We face intense competition in the communication semiconductor market. The communication semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by the following: • rapid technological change; • subject to general business cycles; • price erosion; • limited access to fabrication capacity; • unforeseen manufacturing yield problems; and • heightened international competition in many markets. These factors are likely to result in pricing pressures on our products, thus potentially affecting our operating results. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of high-performance integrated circuit technology depends on factors both within and outside our control, including: • success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies; • protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; • product quality; • reliability; • price; • efficiency of production; • failure to find alternative manufacturing sources to produce VLSI devices with acceptable manufacturing yields; • the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their products; • success of competitors’ products; and • general economic conditions. The telecommunications and data communications industries, which are our primary target markets, have become intensely competitive because of deregulation, heightened international competition and significant decreases in demand since 2000. A number of our customers have internal semiconductor design or manufacturing capability with which we also compete in addition to our other competitors. Any failure by us to compete successfully in these target markets, particularly in the communications markets, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on outside fabrication facilities, and our business could be hurt if our relationships with our foundry suppliers are damaged. We do not own or operate a VLSI circuit fabrication facility. Four foundries currently supply us with all of our semiconductor device requirements. While we have had good relations with these foundries, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew or maintain contracts with them or negotiate new contracts to replace those that expire. In addition, we cannot be certain that renewed or new contracts will contain terms as favorable as our current terms. There are other significant risks associated with our reliance on outside foundries, including the following: • the lack of assured semiconductor wafer supply and control over delivery schedules; 21 • the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; and • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. Reliance on third-party fabrication facilities limits our ability to control the manufacturing process. Manufacturing integrated circuits is a highly complex and technology-intensive process. Although we try to diversify our sources of semiconductor device supply and work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries occasionally experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Such reduced manufacturing yields have at times reduced our operating results. A manufacturing disruption at one or more of our outside foundries, including, without limitation, those that may result from natural disasters, accidents, acts of terrorism or political instability or other natural occurrences, could impact production for an extended period of time. Our dependence on a small number of fabrication facilities exposes us to risks of interruptions in deliveries of semiconductor devices. We purchase semiconductor devices from outside foundries pursuant to purchase orders, and we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity at any of our foundries. We provide the foundries with forecasts of our production requirements. However, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity and the availability of raw materials. Therefore, our foundry suppliers could choose to prioritize capacity and raw materials for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our foundries will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. We have been, and expect in the future to be, particularly dependent upon a limited number of foundries for our VLSI device requirements. In particular, as of the date of this Form 10-K, a single foundry manufactures all of our BiCMOS devices. As a result, we expect that we could experience substantial delays or interruptions in the shipment of our products due to any of the following: • sudden demand for an increased amount of semiconductor devices or sudden reduction or elimination of any existing source or sources of semiconductor devices; • time required to qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products could be substantial; and • failure to find alternative manufacturing sources to produce VLSI devices with acceptable manufacturing yields. We are subject to risks arising from our use of subcontractors to assemble our products. Contract assembly houses in Asia assemble all of our semiconductor products. Raw material shortages, natural disasters, political and social instability, service disruptions, currency fluctuations, or other circumstances in the region could force us to seek additional or alternative sources of supply or assembly. This could lead to supply constraints or product delivery delays. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights, or the costs of protecting these rights, may harm our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering our products and development and testing tools. To that end, we have obtained certain domestic and foreign patents and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure the following: • that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications; • that our existing patents or any new patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; • that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our foreign intellectual property rights; and 22 • that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us. Intellectual property rights are uncertain and adjudication of such rights involves complex legal and factual questions. We may be unknowingly infringing on the proprietary rights of others and may be liable for that infringement, which could result in significant liability for us. We occasionally receive correspondence from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be forced to either seek a license to the intellectual property rights of others or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the proprietary rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. We are responsible for any patent litigation costs. If we were to become involved in a dispute regarding intellectual property, whether ours or that of another company, we may have to participate in legal proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or in the United States or foreign courts to determine any or all of the following issues: patent validity, patent infringement, patent ownership or inventorship. These types of proceedings may be costly and time consuming for us, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain a license, if available, or stop making a certain product. From time to time we may prosecute patent litigation against others and as part of such litigation, other parties may allege that our patents are not infringed, are invalid and are unenforceable. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. Such parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to adequately enforce our rights against these parties. The loss of key management could affect our ability to run our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers, including Dr. Santanu Das, Chief Executive Officer and President, and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel. We may engage in acquisitions that may harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. We may pursue acquisitions from time to time that could provide new technologies, skills, products or service offerings. Future acquisitions by us may involve the following: • use of significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; and • incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definitive lives. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • unanticipated expenses and operational disruptions while acquiring and integrating new acquisitions. From time to time, we have engaged in discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of product lines, technologies and businesses. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any such acquisition. If such an acquisition does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially adversely affected or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 23 Our business could be harmed if we fail to integrate future acquisitions adequately. During the past five years, we have acquired three privately-held companies, one based in the United States and two in Israel. The integration of the operations of the ASIC Design Services, Inc. (ASIC), acquired in August 2003, Mysticom, acquired in January 2006 and Data JCE, acquired in January 2007, have been completed. Our management must devote time and resources to the integration of the operations of any future acquisitions. The process of integrating research and development initiatives, computer and accounting systems and other aspects of the operations of any future acquisitions presents a significant challenge to our management. This is compounded by the challenge of simultaneously managing a larger and more geographically dispersed entity. Future acquisitions could present a number of additional difficulties of integration, including: • difficulties in integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and cultures; • difficulties in defining and executing a comprehensive product strategy; and • difficulties in minimizing the loss of key employees of the acquired company. If we delay integrating or fail to integrate operations or experience other unforeseen difficulties, the integration process may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and financial and other resources. Our failure to address these difficulties adequately could harm our business or financial results, and we could fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. We have in the past, as a result of industry conditions, later discontinued or abandoned certain product lines acquired through prior acquisitions. We have made, and may continue to make, investments in development stage companies, which may not produce any returns for us in the future. From time to time we have made investments in early stage venture-backed, start-up companies that develop technologies that are complementary to our product roadmap. In April 2003, we made an initial investment in Opulan Technologies Corp. (Opulan). Opulan develops high performance and cost-effective IP convergence ASSPs from its development facility in Shanghai, China. We plan to continue to use our cash to make selected investments in these types of companies. Certain companies in which we invested in the past have failed, and we have lost our entire investment in them. These investments involve all the risks normally associated with investments in development stage companies. As such, there can be no assurance that we will receive a favorable return on these or any future venture-backed investments that we may make. Additionally, our original and any future investments may continue to become impaired if these companies do not succeed in the execution of their business plans. Any further impairment or equity losses in these investments could negatively impact our future operating results. We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. In the past, securities and class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition or dilution to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may discourage take over offers and may limit the price investors would be willing to pay for our common stock. Delaware corporate law contains, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and shareholder rights plan contain, certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock (preferred stock which our Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval) with rights senior to those of common stock; 24 • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and • dilute stockholders who acquire more than 15% of our common stock. Natural disasters or acts of terrorism affecting our locations, or those of our suppliers, in the United States or internationally may negatively impact our business. We operate our businesses in the United States and internationally, including the operation of a design center in India, and sales, design and engineering operations in Israel. Some of the countries in which we operate or in which our customers are located have in the past been subject to terrorist acts and could continue to be subject to acts of terrorism. In addition, some of these areas may be subject to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or floods. If our facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers, are affected by a natural disaster or terrorist act, our employees could be injured and those facilities damaged, which could lead to loss of skill sets and affect the development or fabrication of our products, which could lead to lower short and long-term revenues. In addition, natural disasters or terrorist acts in the areas in which we operate or in which our customers or suppliers operate could lead to delays or loss of business opportunities, as well as changes in security and operations at those locations, which could increase our operating costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 