Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the common stock and other securities of the Company involves certain risks. Holders of the Company’s securities and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in the Company’s securities. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other risks of which we are not currently aware, which relate to the banking and financial services industries in general, or which we do not now believe are material, may cause earning to be lower, or impair our future financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The number of shares that will become available for sale could adversely affect the future market for our common stock. As of March 8, 2006, we had 7,556,573 shares of common stock outstanding. Of the outstanding shares, 5,120,000 shares of common stock, or 67.8%, were restricted shares sold in our private offering on December 9, 2005. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have filed a registration statement with the SEC with respect to the 5,120,000 shares and have agreed to keep such registration statement effective for two years or until such earlier date as all of those 5,120,000 shares purchased in the private offering have either been sold pursuant to the registration statement or may be sold without registration under the Securities Act. Sales of substantial amounts of restricted shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional shares that may cause dilution. Our articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, to: authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred stock in connection with future equity offerings, acquisitions of securities or other assets of companies; and classify or reclassify any unissued preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have the preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock could be dilutive to shareholders if they do not invest in future offerings. Moreover, to the extent that we issue options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or we issue restricted stock, shareholders may experience future dilution. Control by our executive officers and directors will limit individual ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval and could discourage a potential acquisition by third parties. As of March 8, 2006, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 17.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These shareholders, if acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our Board of Directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may not have the ability to pay dividends in the future. We have not paid any dividends on our equity. Any future determination as to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and such other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by various provisions in our debt instruments, the most restrictive of which is a line of credit we have with another financial institution, which provides that the payment of dividends, together with other “restricted payments”, as defined in such line of credit, are limited to 25% of our net income. Additionally, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the scheduled payments on our junior subordinated debentures and trust preferred securities have not been made. The ability of Matrix Bank and other subsidiaries to pay dividends to us may be restricted due to certain regulatory requirements. 20 Risks Related to our Business Strategy We may be unable to successfully implement our community banking business strategy. Our executive management team intends to adopt a traditional, community-focused commercial banking strategy as discussed in Item 1., “New Business Strategy and Name Change” above. In order to execute this new business strategy we must, among other things: · attract sufficient commercial business deposits; · attract and maintain business banking relationships with businesses in the Colorado Front Range market; · attract and retain experienced and successful commercial and community bankers; · identify and pursue suitable opportunities for opening new branches in the Colorado Front Range market; and · maintain adequate regulatory capital and comply with applicable federal and state regulations. Failure to achieve these strategic goals could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our new business strategies and our overall financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion of the business strategy at Item 1., “New Business Strategy and Name Change.” Matrix Bank’s expansion of its direct originations of residential and commercial loans may be adversely impacted by rising interest rates. Over the past several years financial institutions have been operating in a low interest rate environment, which has fostered growth in residential and commercial lending and increased loan volumes. A rapid or substantial increase in interest rates during the time our management team plans to expand Matrix Bank’s retail franchise may thereafter result in decreased demand for loans and slower growth of Matrix Bank’s traditional community banking business, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage our proposed growth. Our executive management’s business strategy contemplates, in part, an increase in our franchise value through the development of a branch network for Matrix Bank, the increase in retail and commercial deposits and use of such funds to originate higher yielding traditional loan products. The expansion plans of our management team may significantly burden our infrastructure, and our executive management may be unable to oversee such expansion successfully or be able to effectively manage the development of our new business lines. No assurance can be made that our proposed asset dispositions will be accomplished or that other strategies may be undertaken. Our executive management team contemplates disposing of certain assets, including marketing and selling in a sale-leaseback transaction our office building in downtown Denver where our headquarters are located. We also intend to monetize the remaining $25.0 million allocation of New Market Tax Credits that were awarded to us during 2004. Furthermore, our management team is evaluating the potential exercise of the put option for our remaining 25% interest in a former subsidiary, Matrix Asset Management LLC, which we would expect to result in a gain to us of not less than $2.5 million. We cannot provide assurances that any or all of the dispositions discussed above will be accomplished, pursued or that anticipated returns will be realized. In addition, our management team will continue to evaluate our business operations and performance and may sell other business or assets when we believe that such sales are in our best interests. Changes in economic conditions in the Colorado Front Range market could have a material adverse effect upon the implementation and success of our business strategy. The implementation and success of our business strategy depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the Colorado Front Range market. The local economic conditions in our market area will have a significant impact on residential and commercial loans originated, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions in our market area and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our past operating results and financial condition will likely not be representative of our future results and financial condition. Over the last several years, we have sold our interest in various subsidiaries, sold bank branches and discontinued certain operations. In addition, our management team expects to implement our strategic plan to expand the retail operations of Matrix Bank, through the opening of new branches and expand Matrix Bank’s direct originations of residential and commercial loans. These changes in our operations and new business strategies will make period-to-period comparisons difficult and our past operating results and financial condition will likely not be indicative of our future results and financial condition. 21 Risks Related to Our Business Matrix Bank relies on institutional deposits and Matrix Bank must offer competitive interest rates and services in order to attract and retain such deposits. A significant portion of Matrix Bank’s total deposits are funds deposited as a result of unaffiliated institutional relationships maintained by Matrix Bank. Institutional depositors generally are more sensitive to interest rate levels due to the amount of money they maintain on deposit than retail consumers who bank at a branch office. Matrix Bank’s future success in retaining and attracting institutional depositors depends, in part, on Matrix Bank’s ability to offer competitive rates and services. If Matrix Bank loses one or more of these institutional relationships, its liquidity, profitability and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. See further discussion of deposits at Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this document. Matrix Bank relies upon brokered deposits, which are potentially volatile and subject to withdrawal by customers. Brokered deposits are deposits that we obtain from or through a deposit broker. Brokered deposits are considered to be volatile and could be subject to withdrawal. Matrix Bank must offer competitive interest rates on its brokered deposits due to the high level of competition among financial institutions for these deposits. Brokered deposits are priced based on the current general level of interest rates and, unlike retail deposits, do not take into account regional pricing. Matrix Bank’s ability to continue to acquire brokered deposits is subject to its ability to price these deposits at competitive levels, which may substantially increase Matrix Bank’s funding costs. In addition, if Matrix Bank’s capital levels were to fall below “well capitalized” under the Prompt Corrective Action standards of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, Matrix Bank’s ability to accept, renew or roll over these deposits would be subject to its receiving a waiver from the FDIC. Furthermore, Matrix Bank would be limited on the rate that it could pay for these deposits to 75 basis points over the effective yield on deposits that Matrix Bank offers in its normal market area or the national rate for deposits of comparable maturity. If Matrix Bank were to fail to receive a waiver from the FDIC or if Matrix Bank were otherwise unable to maintain its brokered deposits, its liquidity, profitability and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. See further discussion of deposits at Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this document. Matrix Bank relies on FHLBank system borrowings for secondary and contingent liquidity sources. Matrix Bank utilizes borrowings from the FHLBank system for secondary and contingent sources of liquidity. Also, from time to time, Matrix Bank utilizes this borrowing source to capitalize on market opportunities to fund investment and loan initiatives. If Matrix Bank were unable to borrow from the FHLBank system, it would have to find alternative sources of liquidity, which, if available, would probably be at a higher cost and on terms that do not match the structure of its liabilities as well as FHLBank system borrowings do. See further discussion of our FHLBank system borrowings at Item 7. “Asset and Liability Management” and at Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this document. Matrix Bank’s existing and proposed commercial lending activity and the commercial loans that are and will be held in Matrix Bank’s loan portfolio exposes Matrix Bank to credit risks. Matrix Bank currently originates and purchases commercial loans, and our management team expects to expand its direct originations of commercial real estate and business loans in the Colorado Front Range market. When originating or purchasing commercial loans, Matrix Bank will undertake an analysis of the credit risk, the value of the underlying collateral and other more intangible factors. The commercial loans held in Matrix Bank’s loan portfolio exposes, and new commercial lending activity will expose, Matrix Bank to risks, particularly in the case of loans to small businesses. These risks include possible errors in Matrix Bank’s credit analysis, the uncertainty of the borrower’s ability to repay the loans, the uncertainty of future economic conditions and the possibility of loan defaults. Commercial lending generally includes higher interest rates and shorter terms of repayment than non-commercial lending. Accordingly, Matrix Bank is subject to greater credit risk with the commercial lending and commercial loans held in its loan portfolio. See further discussion of our non-performing loans at Item 7. “Asset and Liability Management” Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential, or “spread,” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. In rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline, and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Changes in interest rates also significantly impact the valuation of our mortgage servicing rights and loans held for sale. Both of these assets are carried at the lower of cost or market. As interest rates decline and mortgage loans prepay faster, mortgage servicing rights decline in value. Changes in mortgage prepayments, interest rates and other factors can cause the value of this asset to decrease rapidly over a short period of time. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and other factors may also cause the value of our loans held for sale to change, possibly resulting in a charge to earnings. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. See further discussion at Item 7. “Asset and Liability Management”. 22 Our investment portfolio includes securities that are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may result in losses. These investment securities are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Our management team anticipates that our investment securities portfolio may increase or decrease in the future. Our investment securities portfolio consists primarily of mortgage backed securities and SBA securities. The value and performance of our investment securities portfolio is sensitive to changes in the general interest rates and economic downturns. Decreases in the market value of our investment securities portfolio and declining interest rates could reduce the performance of the investment securities portfolio, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We invest in bulk loan purchases and mortgage backed obligations, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk. See detail of our investment securities portfolio in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this document. We invest in bulk loan purchases and mortgage backed obligations, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk. Our loan portfolio largely consists of single-family residential loans acquired through bulk purchases. Our investment portfolio largely consists of mortgage backed securities primarily secured by pools of mortgages on single-family residences. When we acquire such mortgage backed securities and loans, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, thereby generating an expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase as interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Many of our mortgage backed securities and bulk loan purchases were acquired at a premium purchase price. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, we will write-off such premiums when necessary due to loan prepayments with respect to our held for sale loan portfolio and amortize such premiums over the expected lives of our mortgage backed securities and loans held for investment. If the mortgage loans we acquire or that secure our mortgage backed securities prepay more rapidly than anticipated, we would have to write-off or amortize the premium on an accelerated basis, which would thereby adversely affect our profitability. Loan servicing income derived from residential mortgage loan servicing rights may be adversely affected during periods of declining interest rates. Owning residential mortgage loan servicing rights carries interest rate risk because the total amount of servicing fees earned, as well as the amortization of the investment in the servicing rights, fluctuates based on loan prepayments (affecting the expected average life of a portfolio of residential mortgage servicing rights). The rate of prepayment of mortgage loans may be influenced by changing national and regional economic trends, such as recessions or depressed real estate markets, as well as the difference between interest rates on existing mortgage loans relative to prevailing mortgage rates. During periods of declining interest rates, many borrowers refinance their mortgage loans. Accordingly, as prepayments of mortgage loans increase, the loan administration fee income related to the residential mortgage loan servicing rights corresponding to a mortgage loan ceases as mortgage loans are prepaid. Consequently, the market value of portfolios of residential mortgage loan servicing rights tends to decrease during periods of declining interest rates, since greater prepayments can be expected, and as a result, the amount of loan administration income received also decreases. See further discussion at Item 1. “Mortgage Servicing Activities”, and at Item 7. “Asset and Liability Management”. We may have fluctuations in our quarterly results. Our financial results are subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as a result of, among other things, the variance in the number and magnitude of purchases and sales of loans and/or servicing rights consummated by us from time to time. In addition, a portion of our revenues is derived from brokerage fees, the timing and receipt of which are unpredictable. Our operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, economic conditions in the financial industry, the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of operations, the introduction of new services by us or our competitors and the mix of services sold. In response to a changing competitive environment, we may elect from time to time to make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or enter into strategic alliances or make investments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Accordingly, our results of operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any succeeding quarter or for the full fiscal year. 23 A downturn in Matrix Bank’s real estate markets could hurt its business. A downturn in the real estate markets in which Matrix Bank originates, purchases and services mortgage and other loans could hurt its business because these loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing the loans could be reduced. Matrix Bank’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and Matrix Bank would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Matrix Bank’s real property collateral is located throughout the United States. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loan and servicing rights portfolios are geographically concentrated. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois and Texas, while our loan servicing portfolio is concentrated in California, Texas, Missouri and New Mexico. The geographic areas in which concentrations exist vary from time to time. Consequently, our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon general trends in the markets in which concentrations exist and, more specifically, their respective residential, multi-family and commercial real estate markets. An economic decline in a particular geographic area may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay the loans or the values of properties or other assets that may secure our loans. In addition, certain geographic areas, including California, may be more vulnerable to risks of natural disasters, such as earthquakes and mudslides, which are not typically covered by standard hazard insurance policies maintained by borrowers. Moreover, Florida and Texas are vulnerable to hurricanes, and flood damage is not typically covered by standard hazard insurance policies maintained by borrowers. Uninsured disasters may adversely impact borrowers’ ability to repay loans made by us and the value of collateral underlying such loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See further discussion at Item 1. “Mortgage Servicing Activities.” We face strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could hurt our business. Pursuant to our community business strategy, we expect to expand our retail and commercial banking operations in the Colorado Front Range market. Increased competition within this market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the financial and banking services that we offer, or intend to offer, in the Colorado Front Range market. See further discussion of competition at Item 1. “Competition”. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to achieve our anticipated loan and deposit growth and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that the Company has adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s ability to predict, influence or control. Like other financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for loan losses reflects the Company’s estimate of the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot assure you that the Company will not increase its allowance for loan losses further or that regulators will not require Matrix Bank to increase its allowance. Either of these occurrences could harm our results of operations. See further discussion at Item 7. “Asset and Liability Management.” 24 The mortgage loans that we hold are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. The residential and commercial mortgage loans held in our loan portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss of principal and interest. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower. In addition, other factors that affect the risk of our mortgage loan portfolio include: · property location and condition; · competition and demand for comparable properties; · changes in zoning laws for the property or its surrounding area; · environmental contamination at the property; · the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; · changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; · declines in regional or local real estate values; · increases in interest rates and/or real estate tax rates; · changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation and tax laws; and · other events such as acts of God, natural disasters, war, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held in our mortgage loan portfolio, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral that we can realize upon foreclosure and sale and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan and the cost of foreclosing on the related property. Losses resulting from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures could have a material adverse effect on our income and cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy, as determined by the bankruptcy court. The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. The loan portfolios we acquire include loans that have had past payment delinquencies and as a result there is a higher risk of foreclosure and potential added foreclosure costs and expenses to us. Our loan portfolio includes mortgage loans that were originated by numerous lenders throughout the United States under various loan programs and underwriting standards. The loan portfolio includes some mortgage loans that we acquired that had payment delinquencies in the past or, to a lesser extent, were delinquent at the time we purchased the mortgage loan. As a part of our prior business strategy, portfolios of mortgage loans with varying degrees of current and past delinquencies were purchased at discounts. Although we perform due diligence at the time loans are purchased, the risk of continuing or recurrent delinquency remains. We assume substantially all risk of loss associated with mortgage loans we acquire in the case of foreclosure. This risk includes the cost of the foreclosure, the loss of interest, and the potential loss of principal to the extent that the value of the underlying collateral is less than our investment in the mortgage loan. See further discussion at Item 7. “Asset and Liability Management”. Our revenues from mortgage loan servicing can also be adversely affected by delinquencies and defaults. We are also affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that we service. Under many types of mortgage servicing contracts, the servicer must forward to the owner of the loan all or part of the scheduled payments and mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments even though sufficient escrow funds may not have been paid by borrowers. Until we are able to recover these advances, we must incur the cost of funds on the advance. Further, we must bear the increased costs of attempting to collect delinquent or defaulted mortgage loans and may experience losses if we are unable to recover the advanced funds. See further discussion at Item 1. “Mortgage Servicing Activities.” We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 25 If we sell mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and the underlying loan defaults, we may be liable to the purchaser for unpaid principal and interest on the loan. In the ordinary course of selling mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and in accordance with industry standards, we make certain representations and warranties to purchasers. If a loan defaults and there has been a breach of representations or warranties and we have no recourse against a third party, we may become liable for the unpaid principal and interest on the defaulted loan. In such a case, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the loan. When we purchase mortgage servicing rights or mortgage loans, we also are exposed to liability to the extent that an originator or other seller of the servicing rights is unable to honor its representations and warranties to us. The Company has established a reserve for repurchases that may be required in connection with loans we originated and sold in connection with the sale of our wholesale production platform in 2003. If a loan originator or seller of mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights breaches its representations and warranties to us, we may be at risk if such seller does not have the financial capacity to pay for damages we incur as a result of such breach or to repurchase any such loan. We generally receive representations and warranties from the originators and sellers from whom we purchase mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights, as well as contractually providing for recourse relating to performance of the loans we purchase. However, in the event of an originator’s and/or seller’s breach of such representations and warranties, we may be subject to the risk of loss that may result from such a breach if the seller and/or originator does not have the financial capacity to pay for any damages we incur or to repurchase loans when called upon by us to do so. Our loans to charter schools involve additional risk of default if the school’s charter is not renewed or revoked or if laws governing charter schools are materially changed. We offer limited financing to charter schools in several states, including Arizona, Missouri and Texas. In addition to the risks associated with commercial lending generally, which are discussed elsewhere in these Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” financing of charter schools carries some additional, unique, risks. Charter schools are typically organized under charters granted by sponsoring governmental entities. The parameters of individual charters are generally dictated by the state law authorizing the organization of charter schools, as well as the sponsoring governmental entity of the particular charter school. The law under which each charter school is organized provides that the charter of a particular school will be reviewed periodically, sometimes annually and sometimes on a less frequent basis. In addition, at the expiration of a charter, the sponsoring governmental entity generally has sole discretion over whether to renew a school’s charter. We run the risk that the charter of a school or schools that we finance will not be renewed or will be revoked. If such an occurrence happens, the principal source of re-payment on our financing of such school or schools will effectively disappear. In such an event, it is likely that we would realize a significant loss with respect to such financing of the school in question because we would effectively have no recourse to the charter school or, since the sponsoring governmental entity does not guarantee or otherwise become liable for the obligations of a charter school, the sponsoring governmental entity. Appropriations for charter schools are generally made based upon the number of students enrolled in a particular charter school. In the event a particular charter school is unable to attract and keep enrolled a minimum number of students, such school would not be appropriated enough money to meet its obligations, including its obligations under the lease financing arrangements with us. We are also subject to the risk that the states in which charter schools are authorized to operate will determine to repeal or otherwise significantly alter the laws under which such charter schools operate. If the authorizing laws were repealed in states where we have outstanding financings, the result would be much the same as if the charter of a particular school were not renewed or were revoked; however, the impact on us would tend to be much more significant because the repeal would affect all schools financed by us in that state as opposed to one particular school in the case of non-renewal or revocation of a charter. If the laws were significantly changed or altered in a particular state, the impact on us would depend on the nature of the change or alteration. Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect our SBA business. Our SBA business relies on originating, purchasing, pooling and selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the SBA. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans for a period of time. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or the U.S. Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the programs. If changes occur, the volumes of loans that qualify for government guarantees could decline. Lower volumes of origination of government guaranteed loans may reduce the profitability of our SBA business. 26 Failure in our automated systems and controls could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. We depend heavily upon our automated systems and controls for our business and operations. These systems and controls support the evaluation, acquisition, monitoring, collection and administration of our loan and servicing portfolios, depository, general accounting and other management functions, as well as the consulting and brokerage functions we perform. The failure of the automated systems, including a failure of data integrity or accuracy, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and deter potential customers. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. A failure of such security measures could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Security of our computer systems and network infrastructure is important to our business and our ability to protect customer information, and breaches of our computer and network security may result in customer information being compromised and/or identity theft, which would have a material adverse effect upon our business. In our business, we maintain personal and financial information about our current, past and potential customers on our computer systems and network infrastructure, such as customer names, addresses, social security numbers, tax identification numbers, bank account numbers, information on loan applications and other sensitive personal and financial information about our customers. In addition, many of our customers use the Internet and connect to our website to access their bank accounts to retrieve information about their accounts, as well as conduct online transactions, such as online bill payments. If the security of our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure responsible for storing our customers' personal and financial data and information and/or the security of our online banking Internet services are breached by an unauthorized person or entity, then the customer's information that is stolen from us could be potentially misused by any such unauthorized person. This could include the loss of privacy of such customer's non public information through the sale and/or disclosure of such information to third parties, as well as the potential that the stolen customer information could be used in such a way that results in identity theft of the customer. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure that is responsible for the storage of our customer's personal and financial information. If our security measures fail to protect our customer's information, our existing and future customer base may be adversely affected, we may become subject to customer lawsuits, the public perception of us may be diminished, and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Matrix Bank is regulated by the OTS and the FDIC, and we are regulated by the OTS. Matrix Bank also belongs to the FHLBank System and, as a member of such system, is subject to certain regulations promulgated by the FHLBank of Topeka and FHLBank of Dallas. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, the FHLBank System, the United States Congress or other federal or state regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect the FDIC’s insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers, rather than our shareholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Truth-in-Saving Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and Colorado’s deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. See further discussion at Item 1. “Regulation and Supervision.” 27 Sterling Trust is subject to regulation as a trust company and could be the subject of third party actions as a result of the trust services it provides. As a Texas-chartered trust company, Sterling Trust is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Texas Department of Banking. Pursuant to applicable law, a Texas trust company, such as Sterling Trust, is subject to virtually all provisions of the Texas Banking Act as if the trust company were a state-chartered bank. The activities of a Texas trust company are limited by applicable law generally to acting as a trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or agent for the performance of any lawful act, and to lend and accumulate money when authorized under applicable law. Sterling Trust is also subject to Internal Revenue Service and Department of Labor regulations. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which Sterling Trust may engage and the Texas Department of Banking has supervisory and enforcement power with respect to Sterling Trust’s operations. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect Sterling Trust or us adversely. See further discussion at Item 1. “Regulation and Supervision.” As a custodian of self-directed individual retirement accounts and other retirement accounts, Sterling Trust does not provide investment advice, nor does it maintain discretion, with regard to the investment choices made by its customers and their representatives. Nevertheless, Sterling Trust has been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to claims by third parties that the provision by Sterling Trust of these self-directed custodial services constitute a breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, or similar breach or violation of duty or law. While we believe federal law and the laws of the various states in which we operate support our view of Sterling Trust’s duties, or lack thereof, in that regard, there can be no assurances that any third party that takes a contrary position will not prevail in any litigation or other proceeding challenging the matter. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is subject to our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries. We are a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We currently depend on our cash and liquidity as well as dividends from our subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses. No assurance can be made that in the future our subsidiaries will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends to satisfy our obligations. The availability of dividends from Matrix Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Matrix Bank and other factors, that the OTS could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by Matrix Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, under such circumstances, an inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The brokerage services provided by Matrix Bancorp Trading may adversely affect revenue or result in losses. Our subsidiary, Matrix Bancorp Trading, provides brokerage services to financial institutions and financial services companies operating within the mortgage banking industry. Matrix Bancorp Trading's brokerage business, by its nature, is subject to potential defaults by its clients, which include a client's failure to pay for loans, mortgage backed securities and/or mortgage servicing rights that they agreed to purchase, as well as a client's failure to deliver loans, mortgage backed securities or mortgage servicing rights that they agreed to sell. In addition, Matrix Bancorp Trading's brokerage business involves credit and/or default risk involving the counterparty of a transaction that Matrix Bancorp Trading brokers on behalf of its clients. These credit and default risks consist of the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations in such transaction. Any or all of these risks in a transaction that Matrix Bancorp Trading brokers may result in such brokered transaction not closing and Matrix Bancorp Trading losing its commissions, which would have an adverse effect upon Matrix Bancorp Trading's revenue and may result in losses due to the resources and expenses incurred by Matrix Bancorp Trading to broker such failed transaction. We will be exposed to risks relating to the evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are currently in the process of evaluating our internal control system to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our control over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluations and testing, and any necessary remediation, required for compliance with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). These systems are necessary to produce accurate financial reports and prevent fraudulent financial activity. As a “non-accelerated” filer, we are required to comply with SOX beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending on or after July 15, 2007; however, if our market capitalization as of June 30, 2006 equals or exceeds $75.0 million, which we expect will be the case, we will be required to comply with SOX beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that may remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of SOX in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NASDAQ. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified and is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock could be significantly adversely affected as a result. 28 Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions General economic conditions, whether regional or industry-related or due to a recession throughout the United States, affect consumers’ decisions to buy or sell residences as well as the number of residential mortgage loan delinquencies and foreclosures, the value of collateral supporting loan portfolios, administrative costs in evaluating and processing loan applications and the costs and availability of funds that companies rely upon in order to make or purchase loans. Changes in the level of consumer confidence, real estate values, prevailing interest rates and investment returns expected by the financial community could make loans of the types originated, purchased, serviced and sold by the Company less attractive to borrowers or investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 