Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, because they could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Common Stock. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information contained in and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remedied effectively, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Common Stock and otherwise seriously harm our business—As discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, from January 10, 2006 to May 26, 2006, we received 11 anonymous letters primarily alleging improprieties relating to our financial reporting, fulfillment of customer contracts and disclosure practices. More specifically, the letters contained allegations of improper revenue recognition practices. The Audit Committee retained the independent national law firm of Sidley Austin LLP and Alvarez & Marsal Dispute Analysis and Forensic Services, LLC (“Alvarez & Marsal”), a nationally-recognized forensic accounting firm, to conduct an independent investigation of the allegations contained in the anonymous letters. Based upon the normal year end closing process and the preliminary findings of the investigation, we identified certain errors in our financial statements for the second and third quarters of 2005. On June 29, 2006, Sidley Austin LLP reported its findings to the Audit Committee, and the Audit Committee determined that, because of improper accounting and financial reporting practices with respect to reporting periods in the fiscal years 2002 through 2005, the previously issued financial statements for each of the reporting periods in 2002 through 2005 should no longer be relied upon. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Footnotes 12 and 13 to the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information concerning the independent investigation. The investigation and the remedial actions resulting from the investigation have caused and will likely continue to cause uncertainty and disruption of our business and operations. 16 As discussed in Item 9A, as a consequence of the Audit Committee’s determination that because of improper accounting and financial reporting practices with respect to reporting periods in the fiscal years 2002 through 2005, the previously issued financial statements for each of the reporting periods in 2002 through 2005 should no longer be relied upon. Our management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and our internal control over financial reporting had material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005. Among other things, our control environment was not adequate because certain former members of senior management did not set a proper ethical tone within our organization and instill an attitude of compliance. Certain former members of our management were directly involved in circumventing our accounting controls, and other former members of our management were aware of, or should have been aware, that such controls were being circumvented. Further, we do not currently have an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, and, accordingly, are unable to manage our operations or generate reports from a single integrated data set. Although we have taken actions to begin to address the material weaknesses, our inability to remedy such material weaknesses promptly and effectively could have a material adverse effect on the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly and annual reporting requirements in a timely manner and could also have a material adverse effect on our business relationships and our reputation. Moreover, our remediation efforts will likely require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Prior to the remediation of these material weaknesses, there remains the risk that the controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require further restatement of our financial statements. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to disclosure control or internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our operating results and the market price of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, such controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify misstatements or to provide reasonable assurance that our financial statements are prepared in conformity with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Litigation or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial condition—We, Richard A. Linden, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott T. Veech, our former Chief Financial Officer, are defendants in several lawsuits relating to our accounting and financial disclosure. In addition, Brian E. Pedlar, our former Senior Vice President and former President of Cedara Software Corp., who served as our interim co-President and interim co-Chief Executive Officer from July 2, 2006 to August 18, 2006, has been named in one of the lawsuits. Mr. Linden, Mr. Veech, William C. Mortimore (our founder, former Chairman and former Chief Strategist, who served as our interim Chief Executive Officer from May 15, 2006 to July 2, 2006) and all of the members of our Board of Directors are also defendants in a derivative action, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and failure to hold a 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. These lawsuits and other legal matters in which we have become involved, are described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Those lawsuits present material and significant risk to us. We are unable at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate a range of damages in the event plaintiffs in these or other potential matters relating to the same events prevail under one or more of their claims. The Midwest Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has notified us that we are the subject of an informal, non-public inquiry. We are cooperating with the SEC in response to its request for information. The inquiry generally concerns our financial statement restatements and the anonymous letters we have received regarding our accounting and financial disclosure. We cannot predict whether the SEC will expand the scope of its inquiry or obtain a formal order of investigation. 17 These lawsuits and regulatory matters are having, and will continue to have, a disruptive effect upon the operations of the business, including the diversion of significant time and attention of our senior management, which have adversely affected our results of operations for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2006 and we expect will affect our results of operations for at least the remainder of 2006. In addition, we are likely to incur substantial expenses in connection with such matters, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. We have purchased Directors and Officers (“D&O”) liability insurance that may provide coverage for some or all of these matters. However, there is risk that the D&O insurers will attempt to rescind the policies; that some or all of the claims will not be covered by such policies; or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will exceed the available insurance. We may be unable to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, which could impact our ability to secure financing, cause our stock price to fall and decrease the liquidity of our Common Stock—Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ National Market (now designated the NASDAQ Global Market). The continued listing of our Common Stock requires us to meet certain quantitative and qualitative standards, including the timely filing of our periodic reports with the SEC. On March 20, 2006, May 16, 2006 and August 14, 2006, we received written notifications from the staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market that we were not in compliance with National Association of Securities Dealers’ (“NASD”) rules because we did not timely file our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our Forms 10-Q for the first and second quarter of 2006, and that our Common Stock was, therefore, subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market. On July 11, 2006, we announced that we had received written notification from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel stating that the Panel determined to continue the listing of our common stock subject to our filing of our Form 10-K, our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and all required restatements by no later than August 29, 2006. On August 30, 2006, before the commencement of trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, we filed this Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 with the SEC. We have not yet filed our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. We have requested that the Panel grant us an additional extension until September 8, 2006 to regain compliance with the NASDAQ listing requirements by filing our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, but we cannot be certain that the Panel will grant this request. In any event, we will not be certain that our Common Stock will remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Market until we receive notification from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel that all conditions to our continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market have been satisfied. If delisting of our Common Stock occurs, the trading of our Common Stock may be conducted on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets. If our Common Stock is delisted and we are not at that time current in our SEC filings, our Common Stock will trade on the Pink Sheets. The delisting of our Common Stock from the NASDAQ Global Market would result in decreased liquidity of our outstanding shares of our Common Stock (and a resulting decrease in the ability of our shareholders to sell our Common Stock or obtain timely quotations as to their market value). For example, certain institutions may be unwilling or unable to hold our shares in the event that our Common Stock were to be delisted. To the extent they currently hold our Common Stock, such institutions could be required to divest their holdings, which could impose additional downward pressure on the price of our Common Stock. The delisting of our Common Stock could also deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise generating interest in our Common Stock and might deter certain persons from investing in our Common Stock. Furthermore, our ability to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing could be severely impaired, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. As a result of these factors, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and our stockholders could lose some or all of their investment. The turnover in our management team could negatively impact our business and the trading price of our Common Stock—On May 15, 2006, our Board of Directors accepted the resignation of Richard A. Linden, 18 our former President and Chief Executive Officer, from all positions with us and our subsidiaries, including as an officer, employee and director. At the same time, we appointed William C. Mortimore, who founded the Company and was then serving as our Chairman and Chief Strategist, as our interim Chief Executive Officer. Six weeks later, on July 2, 2006, our Board of Directors accepted the resignations of Mr. Mortimore, Scott T. Veech, our former Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, and David M. Noshay, our former Senior Vice President, Strategic Business Development, from all positions with us and our subsidiaries, including as officers, employees and directors. At the same time, our Board appointed Michael D. Dunham, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, as our principal executive officer on an interim basis, and Brian E. Pedlar, who had been serving as Senior Vice President of Merge Healthcare and President of Cedara Software Corp., and Robert J. White, who had been serving as Senior Vice President of Merge Healthcare and President of Merge eMed, were each appointed as our co-President and co-Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis. On August 17, 2006, we received a written notification from Mr. Pedlar’s counsel of Mr. Pedlar’s departure from us and our subsidiaries, effective as of the close of business on August 18, 2006. Our Board is searching for a new Chief Executive Officer. On July 2, 2006, the Board also appointed Steven M. Oreskovich, who had been serving as our Vice President and Corporate Controller, as our Chief Accounting Officer and interim Treasurer and Secretary. Mr. Oreskovich will serve as our principal accounting officer and interim principal financial officer. Our Board is searching for a Chief Financial Officer. We may not be able to find, attract and retain a suitable new Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on acceptable terms. The new members of our management team may need to devote a significant amount of time to learning about our business and its markets, which could limit their effectiveness in managing our business for a period of time. Further, there will likely be significant uncertainty as to how we will perform under new leadership. With the recent departures of five of our senior executives, we lost persons with a significant amount of experience and knowledge about our business, our customers and our industry and strong relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees. We believe that the turnover of our senior management has created uncertainty that has adversely affected our relationships with our customers and employees and also our reputation in the marketplace. Mr. White, who is President of Merge eMed and has been serving as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer, has only been with us for a short time (since April 2006) and continues to learn about our business. Similarly, Mr. Oreskovich was only recently given the responsibilities of principal accounting officer and interim principal financial officer. We may not be successful if the members of our management team, including our new Chief Executive Officer and new Chief Financial Officer, once hired, cannot effectively manage and operate our business. Our performance and future success depends on our ability to attract, integrate and retain qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel—We are dependent, in part, upon the services of our senior executives, some of whom are new hires or have recently assumed new roles, and other key business and technical personnel. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on our senior executives. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our continued commercialization will depend upon, among other things, the successful recruiting and retention of highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel with experience in business activities such as ours. Competition for the type of highly skilled individuals sought by us is intense. We may not be able to retain existing key employees or be able to find, attract and retain skilled personnel on acceptable terms. Relationships with our customers, potential customers and suppliers may be adversely affected, and our competitors’ competitive position improved, by our restatement of our financial results, related and regulatory proceedings, potential NASDAQ delisting and management turnover—Due to our restatement of our financial statements, related litigation and regulatory proceedings, potential NASDAQ delisting and uncertainty regarding changes in our senior management team, our customers and potential customers, new or existing suppliers or others may have concerns that we will become unreliable in operating our business. As a 19 result, we may experience a decrease in the number of new customers or reluctance on the part of existing customers to renew their contracts with us. In addition, we may experience a loss of other important business relationships. If our customers, potential customers, suppliers or others lose confidence in our ability to operate our business, our business may be materially harmed and our competitors’ competitive position relative to us may be improved. Our ability to obtain D&O liability insurance in the future may be adversely affected by the lawsuits and regulatory actions against us and certain of our executive officers—The lawsuits and regulatory actions described above, and the facts underlying them, may make director and officer liability insurance extremely expensive or unavailable for us in the future. Increased premiums could materially harm our financial results in future periods. The inability to obtain this coverage due to its unavailability or prohibitively expensive premiums would make it more difficult to retain and attract officers and directors and expose us to potentially self-funding any potential future liabilities ordinarily mitigated by director and officer liability insurance. Our quarterly net sales may vary significantly—Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods. Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, demand for our software solutions and services, our sales cycle, economic cycles, the level of reimbursements to our end-user customers from government sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid), accounting policy changes mandated by regulating entities, and other factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report. As a result of healthcare industry trends and the market for our RIS, PACS or RIS/PACS solutions, a large percentage of our revenues are generated by sale and installation of systems sold directly to healthcare institutions. The sales may be subject to delays due to customers’ internal budgets and procedures for approving capital expenditures and by competing needs for other capital expenditures, the deployment of new technologies and personnel resources. Delays in the expected sale or installation of these contracts may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently, our earnings, since a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed. Additionally, we generally depend, in part, upon large contracts with a small number of OEMs to meet our sales goals in any particular quarter. For example, one customer accounted for approximately 37% of our total net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2005, and during the three months ended December 31, 2005, another customer accounted for approximately 27% of our total net sales. Delays in the expected sale or installation of solutions under these large contracts may have a significant impact on our quarterly revenues and consequently our earnings, particularly because a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. Recognition of certain of our revenues may be deferred—Recognition of all or a portion of revenue under certain customer agreements, including license fees and related professional and consulting fees, may be deferred in accordance with applicable accounting standards. Software revenue is generally recognized at the time of shipment to our customers, provided that services are not considered as essential to the functionality of the software, the contract terms are fixed and determinable, collection is probable, and we have vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of fair value of the undelivered contract elements. Software revenue from sales of RIS and RIS/PACS solutions, where consulting and installation services are generally considered essential to the functionality of the software, are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method as the services are performed. We estimate the number of days that services will have to be provided under each contract relating to such sales to estimate the percentage of completion. At times, we have had difficulty accurately estimating the number of days required to complete the consulting and installation services and, accordingly, accurately estimating the percentages of completion. The length of our sales and implementation cycles may adversely affect our future operating results—We have experienced long sales and implementation cycles. How and when to implement, replace, expand or 20 substantially modify medical imaging management software, or modify or add business processes, are major decisions for our end-user target market. Furthermore, our software generally requires significant capital expenditures by our customers. The sales cycle for our software ranges from 6 to 18 months or more from initial contact to contract execution. Our implementation cycle has generally ranged from 3 to 9 months from contract execution to completion of implementation. During the sales and implementation cycles, we will expend substantial time, effort and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software. We may not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures. Additionally, any decision by our customers to delay or cancel purchases or the implementation of our software may adversely affect our revenues. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for software and hardware could adversely impact our business and results of operations—Our access to certain software and hardware components is dependent in some cases upon single and sole source suppliers. The inability of any supplier to fulfill our supply requirements could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face aggressive competition in many areas of our business, and our business will be harmed if we fail to compete effectively—The market for medical imaging solutions is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We may be unable to maintain our competitive position against our current and potential competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we have, and we may not be able to compete effectively with them. In addition, new competitors may emerge and our system and software solution offerings may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of our solutions. The development and acquisition of additional products and technologies, and the improvement of our existing products requires significant investments in research and development. For example, our current product candidates are in various stages of development, and may require significant further research, development, pre-clinical or clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization. We also may not have devoted adequate resources to the development and acquisition of additional products since our June 2005 business combination with Cedara Software Corp. If we fail to successfully sell new products and update our existing products, our operating results may decline as our existing products reach the end of their commercial life cycles. Our proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be infringed upon which could result in additional costs or lost sales—Our success depends, in part, on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain, assert and defend patent rights, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We currently own or have rights to a number of U. S. patents and have a number of outstanding patent applications. We may not, however, be able to obtain additional licenses to patents of others or be able to develop additional patentable technology of our own. Any patents issued to us may not provide us with competitive advantages, or the patents or proprietary rights of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Others may independently develop similar products or design around or infringe such patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. Any patent obtained or licensed by us may not be held to be valid and enforceable if challenged by another party. Although we endeavor to protect our patent rights from infringement, we may not be aware, or become aware, of patents issued to our competitors or others that conflict with our own. Such conflicts could result in a rejection of important patent applications or the invalidation of important patents, which could have a materially adverse effect on our competitive position. In the event of such conflicts, or in the event we believe that competitive products infringe patents to which we hold rights or others believe that our products infringe patents to which they hold rights, we may pursue patent infringement litigation or interference proceedings against, or may be required to defend against such litigation or proceedings involving holders of such conflicting patents or competing products. Such litigation or proceedings may have a materially adverse effect on our competitive position, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation or proceeding. Litigation and other proceedings relating to patent matters, 21 whether initiated by us or a third party, can be expensive and time consuming, regardless of whether the outcome is favorable to us, and can result in the diversion of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to cease any related development or commercialization activities. In addition, if patents that contain dominating or conflicting claims have been or are subsequently issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of others. Any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. We also rely on proprietary know how and confidential information and employ various methods, such as entering into confidentiality and non-compete agreements with our current employees and with certain third parties to whom we have divulged proprietary information, to protect the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our solutions. Such methods may not afford sufficient protection to us, and may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or ensure that other companies would not acquire information that we consider proprietary. We depend on licenses from third parties for rights to some technology we use, and if we are unable to continue these relationships and maintain our rights to this technology, our business could suffer—We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our software from a number of third party vendors. These licenses are provided to us under contracts that typically expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the contract and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. We may not be able to continue using the technology made available to us under these contracts on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce software shipments until we obtain equivalent technology, which could hurt our business. Most of our third party licenses are nonexclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, particularly with regard to the Microsoft Windows/Intel platform on which most of our products operate, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own software. We are subject to government regulation, changes to which could negatively impact our business—We are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), including periodic FDA inspections, in Canada under Health Canada’s Medical Devices Regulations, and in other countries by corresponding regulatory authorities. There can be no assurances that we will not be required to undertake additional actions in the U.S. to comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “Act”), its implementing regulations and any other applicable regulatory requirements. For example, the FDA has increased its focus on regulating computer software intended for the use in a healthcare setting. If our software solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to more extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities. Complying with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive, and may include: · requiring us to receive FDA clearance of a pre-market notification submission demonstrating substantial equivalence to a device already legally marketed, or to obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application establishing the safety and effectiveness of the software; · requiring us to comply with rigorous regulations governing the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and · requiring us to comply with the Act regarding general controls, including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices, reporting of specified malfunctions and adverse device events. 22 Similar obligations may exist in other countries in which we do business, including Canada. Any failure by us to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements, both domestic and foreign, could subject us to a number of enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, product seizures, recalls, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, operating restrictions or limitations on marketing, refusal of the government to grant new clearances or approvals, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Changes in the healthcare industry, including the changes to reimbursement schedules under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, could negatively impact our business—The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform the U. S. healthcare system and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. In 2005, Congress legislated an increase (fee schedule update) of approximately 1.5% in the overall reimbursement rates for physician and outpatient services, including diagnostic imaging services. On February 8, 2006, the President signed into law the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”). Effective for services provided on or after January 1, 2007, the DRA provides that reimbursement for the technical component for imaging services (excluding diagnostic and screening mammography) in non-hospital based freestanding facilities will be capped at the lesser of reimbursement under the Medicare Part B physician fee schedule or the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“HOPPS”) schedule. The DRA also codifies the reduction in reimbursement for multiple images on contiguous body parts previously announced by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). In November 2005, CMS announced that it would pay 100% of the technical component of the higher priced imaging procedure and 50% for the technical component of each additional imaging procedure for imaging procedures involving contiguous body parts within a family of codes when performed in the same session. Under current methodology, Medicare pays 100% of the technical component of each procedure. CMS will phase in this rate reduction over two years, so that the reduction will be 25% for each additional imaging procedure in 2006 and another 25% in 2007. A significant portion of our net sales are directly or indirectly derived from sales to end-users, including hospitals, diagnostic imaging centers and specialty clinics, many of which generate some or all of their revenues from government sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid). We believe that the implementation of the reimbursement reductions contained in the DRA will adversely impact our end-user customers’ revenues, which may cause some of them to respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our software solutions and services. Changes in federal and state regulations relating to patient data could depress the demand for our software and impose significant software redesign costs on us—Federal regulations under HIPAA impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA compliant and non-compliant formats and health plans. Collectively, these groups are known as covered entities. The HIPAA regulations prescribe transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions; protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information; and require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Though we are not a covered entity, most of our customers are and require that our software and services adhere to HIPAA regulations. Any failure or perception of failure of our software or services to meet HIPAA regulations could adversely affect demand for our software and services and force us to potentially expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our software or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients. 23 States and foreign jurisdictions in which our clients or we operate have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA privacy regulations. This may lead to different restrictions for handling individually identifiable health information. As a result, our customers may demand IT solutions and services that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements, which could increase our development costs. In the future, federal, state or foreign governmental authorities may impose new data security regulations or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. We cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business; however, the demand for our software and services may decrease if we are not able to develop and offer software and services that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing our clients. The complexity presented by international operations could negatively affect our business—Revenues from customers headquartered outside of the U. S., which we classify as international revenues, account for a material portion of our revenues. Net sales from our international locations accounted for approximately 41% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005, 32% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 43% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2003. While we plan to continue expanding our presence in international markets, our international operations present a number of risks, including the following: · greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; · potentially unfavorable economic conditions outside of the U. S.; · changes in local currencies may impact the attractiveness of our product competitiveness as we invoice most of our net sales in U. S. Dollars; · certification requirements; · lack of, or limited protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · political instability; · trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; · service provider and government spending patterns; · potential adverse impact on the demand for products and services of U. S.-based businesses due to global perceptions regarding U. S. foreign policy; · natural disasters, war or terrorist acts; · ineffective strategic relationships with international partners; and · political conditions which may threaten the safety of our employees or the employees of our customers or our continued presence in foreign countries. We provide our customers with certain warranties which could result in higher costs than we anticipate—Software products as complex as those offered by us and used in a wide range of clinical and health information systems settings are likely to contain a number of errors or “bugs,” especially early in their product life cycle. Our products are clinical information systems used in patient care settings where a low tolerance for bugs exists. Testing of products is difficult due to the wide range of environments in which systems are installed. The discovery of defects or errors in our software products may cause delays in product delivery, poor client references, payment disputes, contract cancellations, or additional expenses and payments to rectify problems. Any of those factors may result in delayed acceptance of, or the return of, our software products, which could have a material adverse effect upon results of operations or financial condition, business and reputation. 24 We may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, which could negatively impact our results—We have experienced significant challenges integrating Merge Healthcare’s and Cedara Software Corp.’s businesses and personnel. In particular, we have struggled to realize synergistic benefits as a consequence of organizational changes, primarily within our sales and service groups, following our June 1, 2005 business combination with Cedara Software Corp. We may continue to acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies. The process of integrating any acquired business, product or technology into our business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Any acquisition may involve a number of risks, including: · an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements in connection with the integration of the personnel, operations, technologies or products of the acquired companies; · other financial risks, such as potential liabilities associated with the businesses that we acquire; · diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on business relationships with our existing customers and suppliers and those of the acquired company; · an increased risk that we become the subject of litigation regarding intellectual property or other matters; · difficulty in successfully implementing acquired operations, IT systems, customers, OEM supplier and partner relationships, products and business with our operations; · acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technical advancements or worse than expected performance by the acquired company; · entering markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; and · potential loss of our key employees and those of the acquired company. In addition, in connection with any business combinations or acquisitions or investments we could: · issue stock that would dilute existing shareholders’ percentage of ownership; · incur debt and assume liabilities; · obtain financing on unfavorable terms; · incur amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets, or incur large write-offs (see Part II, Item 9B, “Other Information,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K); · incur significant expenditures related to office closures of the acquired companies, including costs relating to termination of employees and leasehold improvement charges relating to vacating the acquired companies’ or our premises; and · reduce the cash that would otherwise be available to fund operations or to use for other purposes. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates—Many of our software solutions provide data for use by healthcare providers in clinical decision making and creating patient treatment plans. If our software fails to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of our software is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could be exposed to claims of liability by customers, clinicians or patients against us relating to the use of our software solutions. The assertion of such claims, whether or not valid, and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from our operations and decrease market acceptance of our software. The allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable, may not be binding upon patients, or may not otherwise protect us from liability for 25 damages. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, our coverage may not cover a particular claim that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim brought against us, which is uninsured or underinsured, could materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Beginning in fiscal 2006, under SFAS No. 123(R) we will begin recording compensation expense in connection with the stock options provided to our employees and directors which may have a significant negative impact on future operating results—In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which requires companies to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and record such expense in the consolidated financial statements. The impact of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) depends on, among other things, levels of share-based payments granted in the future, the market value of our Common Stock as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our stock price, volatility, and employee stock option exercise behaviors and the related tax impact. The expense recorded in future periods may significantly reduce future earnings. For example, in 2006, we expect that the application of SFAS No. 123(R) will reduce our net income by at least $3.4 million. Additionally, as a result of our combination with Cedara Software Corp., a significant number of our option holders are residents of Canada. Although we will incur expense under SFAS No. 123(R) for options held by Canadian residents like those held by U.S. residents, we do not receive a tax benefit with respect to options exercised by Canadian residents such as we receive with respect to options exercised by U. S. residents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our future operating, financing and capital requirements—At June 30, 2006, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $60 million. Our uses of cash in 2006 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors such as the amount of cash that we are required to devote to defend and address our outstanding legal and regulatory proceedings (see Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and our capital expenditure plans. In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our short term or long term liquidity needs, we may need to raise additional capital. If we need to raise additional capital, selling additional equity or raising debt from third party sources may raise such capital. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to current stockholders. In addition, debt financing, if available, could involve restrictive covenants, which could adversely affect operations. Furthermore, these financing alternatives may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Our failure to timely provide Lincoln State Bank with annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 and interim financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006 constituted an event of default under our credit agreement. Accordingly, the obligation of Lincoln State Bank to extend us credit with respect to our $35 million line of credit terminated. We are currently negotiating a new credit agreement with Lincoln State Bank. There can be no assurance that Lincoln State Bank or any other lender will provide us with debt financing, or that any such financing will be provided in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. We maintain substantial deposits of cash and cash equivalents at a limited number of financial institutions in excess of amounts covered by insurance. If one or more of these financial institutions fail, our financial condition may be adversely affected—Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are held at a few financial institutions located in the U. S., Canada and the Netherlands. Deposits held with these banks exceed the amount of insurance, if any, provided on such deposits and, with respect to one such banking institution, we are one of the largest depositors. If one or more of these financial institutions were to fail and we are unable to timely recover the cash and cash equivalents deposited at such institution, it could adversely affect our financial condition. Healthcare industry consolidation could impose pressure on our software prices, reduce our potential client base and reduce demand for our software—Many hospitals and imaging centers have consolidated to create 26 larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our target market and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our software. In addition, when hospitals and imaging centers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure, and acquisition of our customers could erode our revenue base. The trading price of our Common Stock has been volatile and may fluctuate substantially in the future—The price of our Common Stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. For example, the closing price of our Common Stock from January 1, 2006 through August 28, 2006 was as high as $27.36 and as low as $6.43. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: · Our ability to meet or exceed the expectations of analysts or investors; · Changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; · Perceptions regarding how our operating results presented in accordance with GAAP compare to forecasts of non-GAAP measures for our operating results; · Quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · Announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by our competitors or us; · General conditions in the healthcare IT industry; · Governmental regulatory action and healthcare reform measures, including changes in reimbursement rates for imaging procedures; · Rumors about our performance or software solutions; · Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many software, healthcare and technology companies; and · General economic conditions. In addition, the market for our Common Stock may experience price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. As a result, you may not be able to sell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price at which you purchased them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 