Item 1A. Risk Factors From time to time, information provided by us, statements made by our employees or information included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Form 10-K) may contain statements that are not historical facts, so-called “forward-looking statements,” which involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “plans,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “believe” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. Our actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our telecom product revenue has declined significantly in the last three years and our strategic direction has changed. As a result, we are suffering through a period of larger losses, including from operations as well as from write-downs of goodwill and other intangibles assets. Our total revenue has decreased 64% from $49.8 million in 2010 to $17.8 million in 2012. Product revenue has decreased 75% from $41.7 million in 2010 to $10.3 million in 2012. Consequently, we have changed our strategic direction. All product and software development programs related to our telecom product lines were cancelled and we redeployed all of our remaining research and development resources in India and Israel to our interoperable connectivity solutions for consumer electronic and personal computer markets. As our business model changes there can be no assurances that the move to these new product lines will produce acceptable results. Moreover, any other future changes to our business may not prove successful in the short or long term due to a variety of factors, including competition, customer acceptance, demand for our products and other factors. This may cause a material negative impact on our financial results. We are using our available cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations, investments and financing activities. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future and we may incur losses and negative cash flows in future periods. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: •the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; •market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; •our customers’ product-to-market launch schedules; •our ability to develop, introduce, market and support new products and technologies on a timely basis; •availability and cost of products from our suppliers; •intellectual property disputes; •the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; •the effects of our competitors’ new product and technology introductions; •fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers and distributors and changes in our customers’ and distributors’ inventory management practices; •shifts in our product mix and the effect of maturing products; 9 •the timing and extent of product development costs; •new product and technology introductions by us or our competitors; •fluctuations in manufacturing yields; and •significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred substantial operating losses and have used cash in our operating activities for the past several years. Operating losses have resulted from inadequate sales levels for our cost structure. As of December 31, 2012, we had negative working capital of approximately $6.3 million. In addition, as of March 18, 2013, we had outstanding indebtedness to Bridge Bank under our credit facility of approximately $1.7 million. Our current forecast projects that, absent an infusion of capital, we will be unable to meet our current obligations through December 31, 2013. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Consequently, the audit report prepared by our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In July of 2012, we announced a restructuring which primarily affected the telecom product unit and is expected to save $8.0 million in annual operating costs. We also effectuated restructurings in the first and third quarters of 2011. We continue to assess our cost structure in relationship to our revenue levels, which may necessitate further expense reductions. As with any operating plan, there are risks associated with our ability to execute it, including the current economic environment in which we operate. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our obligations, or achieve the operating improvements as contemplated by the current operating plan. If we are unable to execute this plan, we will need to find additional sources of cash not contemplated by the current operating plan and/or raise additional capital to sustain continuing operations as currently contemplated. There can be no assurance that the additional funding sources will be available to us at favorable rates or at all. If we cannot maintain compliance with our covenant requirements on our bank financing facility or cannot obtain appropriate waivers and modifications, the lenders may call the debt. If the debt is called, we would need to obtain new financing and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to achieve our operating plan and maintain compliance with our loan covenants and our debt is called, we will not be able to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our net revenues may decrease. Due to current economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of VLSI semiconductor devices, it has become increasingly difficult for us to predict the purchasing activities of our telecom customers and we expect that our net revenues may decrease further. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules, and customer orders typically can be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to our customers. Because we do not have substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Future fluctuations to our operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. 10 In response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our foundries, we may order inventory and materials in advance of anticipated customer demand, which might result in excess inventory levels if the expected orders fail to materialize. As a result, we cannot predict the timing and amount of shipments to our customers, and any significant downturn in customer demand for our products would reduce our quarterly and annual operating results. We may be unable to secure additional financing, and if we do, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest or we may be subject to covenants that limit our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures, we may need to raise additional funds. Such capital may not be available on terms favorable or acceptable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. If our cash, cash equivalents and operating cash flows are inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the Amended and Restated Business Financing Agreement between us and Bridge Bank, N.A. or our other obligations, we would be in default under their respective terms. Any such default or cross default would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to extend or renew our current credit facility with Bridge Bank on terms reasonably acceptable to us, if at all. During the third quarter of 2012, we were not in compliance with a financial covenant under the Bridge Bank Agreement and Bridge Bank agreed to waive this event of default and our noncompliance with this covenant. We are currently not in compliance with the asset coverage ratio covenant in the facility and we are discussing with Bridge Bank an agreement pursuant to which Bridge Bank would agree to forbear from exercising its rights in the event of default, which rights include accelerating the repayment of our indebtedness. Although we are in discussions with Bridge Bank about extending the facility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to extend or renew our credit facility on terms reasonably acceptable to us or at all. In the future, if we are unable to maintain our compliance or obtain a waiver of our noncompliance with this covenant or others, Bridge Bank could accelerate our indebtedness, which could impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. If our indebtedness is accelerated in full or in part, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing, which could adversely affect our ability to continue our business. We may have to further restructure our business. We may have to make further restructuring changes if we do not sustain the current level of quarterly revenues. Our restructurings could result in management distractions, operational disruptions, and other difficulties. Over the past several years, we have initiated several restructuring activities in an effort to reduce operating costs. Our most recent restructuring was announced in July 2012. Employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with these restructuring activities may seek employment with our customers or competitors. Although each of our employees is required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot guarantee that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities and that our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous restructuring plans. Also, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to new growth opportunities. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We test goodwill amounts for impairment at least annually and consider whether an interim test is required if we believe potential impairment exists. In 2011 and 2010, we recorded goodwill and other intangible impairment charges of $14.3 million and zero, respectively. Of the 2011 impairment charges, $5.4 million related to intangible assets and $8.9 million related to a business acquisition in 2008. In 2012, we recorded goodwill and other intangible impairment charges of approximately $0.6 million. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. We face continued uncertainty in our business environment due to substantial industry, competitive, fiscal and economic challenges. We continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets which may in the future require us to take substantial write-downs, including with respect to previously written down assets and legacy telecom assets. As part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire an interest in a business. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates and we may experience unforeseen issues that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or other long-lived assets. 11 We are a relatively small company with limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively and increase market share. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. Our competitors may also offer bundled solutions offering a more complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of our products. These competitors may elect not to support our products which could complicate our sales efforts. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross margins and/or decrease our market share. Our research and development efforts are focused on a limited number of new technologies and products, and any delay in the development, or abandonment, of these technologies or products by industry participants, or their failure to achieve market acceptance, could compromise our competitive position. Our products are used as components in electronic devices in various markets. As a result, we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a large amount of resources to develop products based on new and emerging technologies and standards that will be commercially introduced in the future. A number of large companies are actively involved in the development of these new technologies and standards. Should any of these companies delay or abandon their efforts to develop commercially available products based on new technologies and standards, our research and development efforts with respect to these technologies and standards likely would have no appreciable value. In addition, if we do not correctly anticipate new technologies and standards, or if the products that we develop based on these new technologies and standards fail to achieve market acceptance, our competitors may be better able to address market demand than we would. Furthermore, if markets for these new technologies and standards develop later than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that are currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these products than we currently anticipate. We anticipate that shipments of our products to a relatively limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenues. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our total net revenues in any particular period. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, shipments to our top five customers, including sales through distributors, accounted for approximately 53% and 39% of our total net revenues, respectively. We expect that a limited number of customers may continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenues for the foreseeable future. Some of the following may reduce our total net revenues or adversely affect our business: •reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; •development by one or more of our significant customers of other sources of supply for current or future products; •loss of one or more of our current customers or a disruption in our sales and distribution channels; and •failure of one or more of our significant customers to make timely payment of our invoices. We cannot be certain that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will return to the levels of previous periods or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from any of our significant customers. 12 The cyclical nature of the communication semiconductor industry affects our business. Communication service providers, internet service providers, regional operating companies and inter-exchange carriers continue to closely monitor their capital expenditures. Spending on voice-only equipment remains slow while spending on equipment providing the efficient transport of data services on existing infrastructure appears to be slowly recovering. Demand for new, high-bandwidth applications such as video conferencing, broadband audio and telephone is placing an increased burden on existing public network infrastructure. We cannot be certain that the market for our products will not decline in the future. Our international business operations expose us to a variety of business risks. Foreign markets are a significant part of our net product revenues. For each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, foreign shipments accounted for approximately 66% and 77%, respectively, of our total net product and services revenues. We expect foreign markets to continue to account for a significant percentage of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our total net revenues will, therefore, be subject to risks associated with foreign markets, including the following: •unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and policy changes affecting the telecommunications, data communications and consumer electronics markets; •changes in tariffs; •exchange rates, currency controls and other barriers; •political and economic instability; •risk of terrorism or war; •difficulties in accounts receivable collection; •difficulties in managing distributors and representatives; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; •natural disasters; •seasonality of customer buying patterns; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. During 2012, a substantial amount of our revenue was from China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Italy, Israel and other foreign countries. We expect revenues in 2013 will also be substantially concentrated in foreign markets. While part of our strategy is to diversify the geographic sources of our revenues, failure to further penetrate other markets could harm our business and results of operations and subject us to increased currency risk. If foreign exchange rates fluctuate significantly, our profitability may decline. Although substantially all of our total net revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies also may reduce our total net revenues from foreign customers. A substantial amount of our costs are denominated in Israeli shekels and Indian rupees. To the extent that we further expand our international operations or change our pricing practices to denominate prices in foreign currencies, we will expose our margins to increased risks of currency fluctuations. Our net product revenues depend on the success of our customers’ products, and our design wins do not necessarily generate revenues in a timely fashion or at all. Our customers generally incorporate our new products into their products or systems at the design stage. However, a customer’s decision to use our products (a “design win”) often precedes the generation of production revenues, if any, by a year or more. Some customer projects are canceled, and thus will not generate revenues for our products. Nonetheless, the development of our products requires significant expenditures without any assurance of success. In addition, even after we achieve a design win, a customer may require further design changes. Implementing these design changes can also require significant expenditures of time and expense by us in the development and pre-production process. Moreover, the value of any design win will largely depend upon the commercial success of the customer’s product and the extent to which the design of the customer’s systems can accommodates components manufactured by our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design wins in customer products that ultimately achieve market acceptance. Further, most revenue-generating design wins take several years to translate into meaningful revenues. 13 We must successfully transition to new process technologies to remain competitive. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop products that utilize new process technologies. Semiconductor design and process methodologies are subject to rapid technological change and require large expenditures for research and development. We currently manufacture our products using 65, 130 and 180 nanometer complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) processes. We continuously evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in transitioning to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered increased costs, reduced yields or delays in product deliveries. We believe that transitioning our products to smaller geometry process technologies will be important for us to remain competitive. We cannot be certain that we can make such a transition successfully, if at all, without delay or inefficiencies. Our success depends on the timely development of new products, and we face risks of product development delays. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new devices and software for existing and new markets. The development of these new devices and software is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development of new products. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including the following: •accurate new product definition; •timely completion and introduction of new product designs; •availability of foundry capacity; •achievement of manufacturing yields; and •market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. Our success also depends upon our ability to do the following: •build products to applicable standards or customer specifications; •develop products that meet customer requirements; •adjust to changing market conditions as quickly and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully; •introduce new products that achieve market acceptance; and •develop reliable software to meet our customers’ application needs in a timely fashion. In addition, we cannot ensure that the systems manufactured by our customers will be introduced in a timely manner or that such systems will achieve market acceptance. We sell a range of products that each has a different gross profit. Our total gross profits will be adversely affected if most of our shipments are of products with low gross profits. Some of our products have a high gross profit while others do not. If our customers decide to buy more of our products with low gross profits and fewer of our products with high gross profits, our total gross profits could be adversely affected. We plan our mix of products based on our internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. 14 The price of our products tends to decrease over the lives of our products. Historically, average selling prices in our industry have decreased over the life of a product, and, as a result, the average selling prices of our products may decrease in the future. Decreases in the price of our products would adversely affect our operating results. As global competition increases, our customers are increasingly more focused on price. We may have to decrease our prices to remain competitive in some situations, which may negatively impact our gross margins. Our success depends on the rate of growth of the global communications infrastructure. We currently derive most of our net revenues from products for telecommunications, data and video communications applications. These markets are characterized by the following: •susceptibility to seasonality of customer buying patterns; •subject to general business cycles; •intense competition; •rapid technological change; and •short product life cycles. We anticipate that these markets will continue to experience significant volatility and reduced demand in the near future. Our products must successfully include industry standards to remain competitive. Products for telecommunications and data communications applications are based on industry standards, which are continually evolving. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards, which could render our existing products unmarketable or obsolete. If the telecommunications or data communications markets evolve to new standards, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers and include the new standards or that such new products will meet with substantial market acceptance. Our business has been and may continue to be significantly impacted by the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. Global credit and financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and continued uncertainty about economic stability. Despite signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that there will not be renewed deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The continued or further tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The volatility in the credit markets has severely diminished liquidity and capital availability. The licensing component of our business strategy increases business risk and volatility. Part of our business strategy is to license IP through agreements with companies whereby companies incorporate our IP into their respective technologies that address certain markets. There can be no assurance that additional companies will be interested in licensing our technology on commercially favorable terms or at all. We also cannot ensure that companies who license our technology will introduce and sell products incorporating our technology, will accurately report royalties owed to us, will pay agreed upon royalties, will honor agreed upon market restrictions, will not infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property and will maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information. The IP agreements are complex and depend upon many factors including completion of milestones, allocation of values to delivered items and customer acceptances. Many of these factors require significant judgments. Licensing revenue could fluctuate significantly from period to period because it is heavily dependent on a few key deals being completed in a particular period, the timing of which is difficult to predict and may not match our expectations. Because of its high margin content, the licensing mix of our revenue can have a disproportionate impact on gross profit and profitability. Also, generating revenue from these arrangements is a lengthy and complex process that may last beyond the period in which efforts begin and once an agreement is in place, the timing of revenue recognition may be dependent on customer acceptance of deliverables, achievement of milestones, our ability to track and report progress on contracts, customer commercialization of the licensed technology and other factors. Licensing agreements that occur as a result of actual or contemplated litigation are subject to the risk that the adversarial nature of the transaction will induce non-compliance or non-payment. The accounting rules associated with recognizing revenue from these transactions are increasingly complex and subject to interpretation. Due to these factors, the amount of license revenue recognized in any period may differ significantly from our expectations. 15 Our failure to protect our proprietary rights, or the costs of protecting these rights, may harm our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering our products and development and testing tools. To that end, we have obtained certain domestic and foreign patents and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure the following: •that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications; •that our existing patents or any new patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; •that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our foreign intellectual property rights; and •that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us. Intellectual property rights are uncertain and adjudication of such rights involves complex legal and factual questions. We may be unknowingly infringing on the proprietary rights of others and may be liable for that infringement, which could result in significant liability for us. We occasionally receive correspondence from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be forced to either seek a license to the intellectual property rights of others or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the proprietary rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. We are responsible for any patent litigation costs. If we were to become involved in a dispute regarding intellectual property, whether ours or that of another company, we may have to participate in legal proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or in the United States or foreign courts to determine any or all of the following issues: patent validity, patent infringement, patent ownership or inventorship. These types of proceedings may be costly and time consuming for us, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain a license, if available, or stop making a certain product. From time to time, we may prosecute patent litigation against others and as part of such litigation, other parties may allege that our patents are not infringed, are invalid and are unenforceable. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. Such parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to adequately enforce our rights against these parties. Our products incorporate technology licensed from third parties We incorporate technology (including software) licensed from third parties in our products. We could be subjected to claims of infringement regardless of our lack of involvement in the development of the licensed technology. Although a third-party licensor is typically obligated to indemnify us if the licensed technology infringes on another party’s intellectual property rights, such indemnification is typically limited in amount and may be worthless if the licensor becomes insolvent. Furthermore, any failure of third-party technology to perform properly would adversely affect sales of our products incorporating such technology. 16 Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have historically agreed to indemnify our customers for certain costs and damages of intellectual property rights in circumstances where one of our products is the factor creating the customer’s infringement exposure. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers. In some instances, our products are designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards. These international standards are often covered by patent rights held by third parties, which may include our competitors. The costs of obtaining licenses from holders of patent rights essential to such international standards could be high. The cost of not obtaining such licenses could also be high if a holder of such patent rights brings a claim for patent infringement. We are not aware of any claimed violations on our part. However, we cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We continue to expense our new product process development costs when incurred. In the past, we have incurred significant new product and process development costs because our policy is to expense these costs, including tooling, fabrication and pre-production expenses, at the time that they are incurred. We may continue to incur these types of expenses in the future. These additional expenses will have a material and adverse effect on our operating results in future periods. We face intense competition in the semiconductor market. Our industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by the following: •rapid technological change; •subject to general business cycles; •price erosion; •limited access to fabrication capacity; •unforeseen manufacturing yield problems; and •heightened international competition in many markets. These factors are likely to result in pricing pressures on our products, thus potentially affecting our operating results. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of high-performance integrated circuit technology depends on factors both within and outside our control, including: •success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies; •protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; •product quality; •reliability; •price; •efficiency of production; •failure to find alternative manufacturing sources to produce our products with acceptable manufacturing yields; •the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their products; •success of competitors’ products; and •general economic conditions. The markets that we serve are intensely competitive. A number of our customers have internal semiconductor design or manufacturing capability with which we also compete in addition to our other competitors. Any failure by us to compete successfully in these target markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 We rely on outside fabrication facilities, and our business could be hurt if our relationships with our foundry suppliers are damaged. We do not own or operate a VLSI circuit fabrication facility. A few foundries currently supply us with all of our semiconductor device requirements. While we have had good relations with these foundries, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew or maintain contracts with them or negotiate new contracts to replace those that expire. In addition, we cannot be certain that renewed or new contracts will contain terms as favorable as our current terms. There are other significant risks associated with our reliance on outside foundries, including the following: •the lack of assured semiconductor wafer supply and control over delivery schedules; •the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; and •limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. Reliance on third-party fabrication facilities limits our ability to control the manufacturing process. Manufacturing integrated circuits is a highly-complex and technology-intensive process. We work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields; however, our foundries occasionally experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Such reduced manufacturing yields have at times reduced our operating results. A manufacturing disruption at one or more of our outside foundries, including, without limitation, those that may result from natural disasters, accidents, acts of terrorism or political instability or other natural occurrences, could impact production for an extended period of time. Our dependence on a small number of fabrication facilities exposes us to risks of interruptions in deliveries of semiconductor devices. We purchase semiconductor devices from outside foundries pursuant to purchase orders, and we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity at any of our foundries. We provide the foundries with forecasts of our production requirements. However, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity and the availability of raw materials. Therefore, our foundry suppliers could choose to prioritize capacity and raw materials for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our foundries will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. We have been, and expect in the future to be, particularly dependent upon a limited number of foundries for our VLSI device requirements. In 2012, one outside wafer foundry supplied a substantial amount of our total semiconductor wafer requirements. The time required to qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products could be substantial and we might not be able to find alternative manufacturing sources able to produce our VLSI devices with acceptable manufacturing yields. As a result, we expect that we could experience substantial delays or interruptions in the shipment of our products if there was a sudden increase in demand or if our foundry suppliers were to cease operations or limit our capacity. We are subject to risks arising from our use of subcontractors to assemble our products. Contract assembly houses in Asia assemble all of our semiconductor products. Raw material shortages, natural disasters, political and social instability, service disruptions, labor disputes, rising wages, currency fluctuations, or other circumstances in the region could force us to seek additional or alternative sources of supply or assembly. This could lead to supply constraints or product delivery delays. The loss of key management could affect our ability to run our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense in the semiconductor industry. We may also have a particularly hard time attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor performance and during this period following our most recent restructuring. 18 The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and/or bugs, any of which could subject us to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Although we, our customers and our suppliers rigorously test our products, our products are complex and may contain errors, defects or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, errors, defects and bugs. If any of our products contain production defects or reliability, safety, quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of affected products to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If defects or bugs are discovered after commencement of commercial production of a new product, we may be required to make significant expenditures of capital and other resources to resolve the problems. This could result in significant additional development costs and the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. We could also incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products, and we could be subject to claims for damages by our customers or others against us. We could also be exposed to product liability claims or indemnification claims by our customers. These costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may engage in acquisitions that may harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. We may pursue acquisitions from time to time that could provide new technologies, skills, products or service offerings. Future acquisitions by us may involve the following: •use of significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents; •potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; and •incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definitive lives. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: •diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; •risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and •unanticipated expenses and operational disruptions while acquiring and integrating new acquisitions. From time to time, we have engaged in discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of product lines, technologies and businesses. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any such acquisition. If such an acquisition does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially adversely affected or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business could be harmed if we fail to integrate future acquisitions adequately. During the past six years, we have acquired three companies, one based in the United States and two based in Israel. Our management must devote time and resources to the integration of the operations of any future acquisitions. The process of integrating research and development initiatives, computer and accounting systems and other aspects of the operations of any future acquisitions presents a significant challenge to our management. This is compounded by the challenge of simultaneously managing a larger and more geographically dispersed entity. Future acquisitions could present a number of additional difficulties of integration, including: 19 •difficulties in integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and cultures; •difficulties in defining and executing a comprehensive product strategy; and •difficulties in minimizing the loss of key employees of the acquired company. If we delay integrating or fail to integrate operations or experience other unforeseen difficulties, the integration process may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and financial and other resources. Our failure to address these difficulties adequately could harm our business or financial results, and we could fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. We have, in the past, as a result of industry conditions, discontinued or abandoned certain product lines acquired through acquisitions. Natural disasters or acts of terrorism affecting our locations, or those of our suppliers, in the United States or internationally may negatively impact our business. We operate our businesses in the United States and internationally, including the operation of a design center in India, and sales, design and engineering operations in Israel. Some of the countries in which we operate or in which our customers are located have in the past been subject to terrorist acts and could continue to be subject to acts of terrorism. In addition, some of these areas may be subject to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or floods. If our facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers, are affected by a natural disaster or terrorist act, our employees could be injured and those facilities damaged, which could lead to loss of skill sets and affect the development or fabrication of our products, which could lead to lower short and long-term revenues. In addition, natural disasters or terrorist acts in the areas in which we operate or in which our customers or suppliers operate could lead to delays or loss of business opportunities, as well as changes in security and operations at those locations, which could increase our operating costs. Our ability to sublease unoccupied office space may adversely affect our future cash outflows. We have outstanding operating lease commitments of approximately $13.5 million, payable over the next five years. Some of these commitments are for space that is not being utilized and, for which, we recorded restructuring charges in prior periods. We currently have subleases for the majority of our unoccupied space but our sublease income generated will not offset the entire future commitment. As of December 31, 2012, we had sublease agreements totaling approximately $9.3 million to rent portions of our unoccupied facilities over the next five years. We currently believe that we can fund these lease commitments in the future; however, there can be no assurances that we will not be required to seek additional capital or provide additional guarantees or collateral on these obligations. Of the office space being leased in our Shelton, Connecticut location, as of December 31, 2012, approximately 92,880 square feet is unoccupied, the majority of which we have taken restructuring charges for in prior years. Substantially all of this space is currently being sublet, but not for the full amount of our lease obligation. If we are unable to collect our sub-lease rents, our future cash outflows would be adversely affected. We may be subject to information technology failures that could damage our reputation, business operations and financial condition. We rely on information technology for the effective operation of our business. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber attacks, sabotage, vandalism, or similar events or disruptions. Our security measures may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Any such compromise of our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, result in the unauthorized release of customer, supplier or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation. In addition, our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. Third parties with which we conduct business have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. In the event that these third parties do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches could result and negatively impact our business, operations and financial results. 20 Customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These new requirements could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products). There will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Our supply chain is complex and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We may also encounter challenges with our customers and stockholders if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free. Most of our current manufacturers, assemblers, test service providers, distributors and customers are concentrated in the same geographic region, which increases the risk that a natural disaster, epidemic, labor strike, war or political unrest could disrupt our operations or sales Many of our current manufacturers, assemblers, test service providers, distributors and customers are located in the Pacific Rim region. The risk of earthquakes in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Earthquakes, tsunamis, fire, flooding, lack of water or other natural disasters, an epidemic, political unrest, war, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our manufacturers, assemblers and test subcontractors are located, likely would result in the disruption of our production capacity. There can be no assurance that alternate capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. A natural disaster, epidemic, labor strike, war or political unrest where our customers' facilities are located would likely reduce our sales to such customers. North Korea's geopolitical maneuverings have created unrest. Such unrest could create economic uncertainty or instability, could escalate to war or otherwise adversely affect our customers and reduce our sales to such customers, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results. Any disruption resulting from these events could also cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling or testing from the affected subcontractor to another third-party vendor. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are not currently in compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price requirement or the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement, and failure to regain and maintain compliance with such standards could result in delisting and adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market (“Nasdaq”). Continued listing of a security on Nasdaq is conditioned upon compliance with various continued listing standards. On December 4, 2012, we received a letter from Nasdaq (the “Minimum Bid Price Notice”) notifying us that the closing bid price of our common stock was below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days and, as a result, the Company no longer complied with the minimum bid price requirement under Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) for continued listing on Nasdaq. The Minimum Bid Price Notice also stated that we have been provided an initial compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until June 3, 2013, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must be at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to June 3, 2013. If we do not regain compliance by June 3, 2013, Nasdaq will provide notice to us that our securities will be subject to delisting. On February 26, 2013, we received a letter from Nasdaq (the “Stockholders’ Equity Notice”) notifying us that we were no longer in compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of at least $2.5 million for continued listing on Nasdaq. The Stockholders’ Equity Notice does not result in the immediate delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq. Rather, under the Nasdaq Listing Rules, we have 45 calendar days from the date of the Stockholders’ Equity Notice to submit to Nasdaq a plan to regain compliance. If the plan is accepted, Nasdaq may grant an extension of up to 180 calendar days from the date of the Stockholders’ Equity Notice for us to evidence compliance. If we submit a plan, Nasdaq will determine whether to accept the plan, considering such criteria as the likelihood that the plan will result in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing criteria, our past compliance history, the reasons for our current non-compliance, other corporate events that may occur within the review period, our overall financial condition and our public disclosures. If Nasdaq does not accept the plan, we will have the opportunity to appeal that decision to a Hearings Panel. 21 If we are delisted and cannot obtain listing on another major market or exchange, our stock’s liquidity would suffer, and we would likely experience reduced investor interest. Such factors may result in a decrease in our stock’s trading price. In addition, the failure to trade on a national securities exchange may hinder our efforts to obtain financing. Our stock price is volatile. The market for securities for communication semiconductor companies, including our Company, has been highly volatile. The daily closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between a low of $0.56 and a high of $8.96 during the period from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2012. It is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate widely in the future. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: •responses to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; •current market conditions in our served markets; and •changes in earnings estimates by analysts. We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. In the past, securities and class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition or dilution to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, rights plan and Delaware law may discourage takeover offers and may limit the price investors would be willing to pay for our common stock. Delaware corporate law contains, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and shareholder rights plan contain, certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock (preferred stock which our Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval) with rights senior to those of common stock; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent; •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and •dilute stockholders who acquire more than 15% of our common stock. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 