Item 1A. Risk Factors CHANGING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND THE GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF OUR MARKETS MAY UNFAVORABLY IMPACT US. Our operations are concentrated in eleven counties in North/Central and Central Ohio. As a result of this geographic concentration in contiguous markets, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or more of these markets could result in one or more of the following: - an increase in loan delinquencies; - an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; - a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and - a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE INTEREST RATE RISKS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR NET INTEREST INCOME. Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect interest income and interest expense. We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, certain assets and liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. For example, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind. Some of our assets, such as adjustable rate mortgages, have features that restrict changes in their interest rates, including rate caps. 19 Table of Contents Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. Some of these factors include: • inflation; • recession; • unemployment; • money supply; • international disorders; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in interest rates may affect the level of voluntary prepayments on the Corporation’s loans and may also affect the level of financing or refinancing by customers. Although the Corporation pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on its profitability. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA MAY REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN DEPOSITS AND ORIGINATE LOANS. We face competition both in originating loans and in attracting deposits. We compete for clients by offering excellent service and competitive rates on our loans and deposit products. The type of institutions we compete with include large regional financial institutions, community banks, thrifts and credit unions operating within the Corporation’s market area. Nontraditional sources of competition for loan and deposit dollars come from captive auto finance companies, mortgage banking companies, internet banks, brokerage companies, insurance companies and direct mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we offer. In addition, to stay competitive in our markets we may need to adjust the interest rates on our products to match the rates offered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. As a result, our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas while achieving our investment objectives. OUR BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS GENERALLY. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility for much of 2008. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our businesses: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A further impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of clients who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. OUR PARTICIPATION IN THE CPP IMPOSES RESTRICTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS ON THE CORPORATION THAT LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE DIVIDENDS AND REPURCHASE OUR COMMON SHARES AND RESTRICT THE COMPENSATION WE MAY PAY TO OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CERTAIN OTHER OF OUR MOST HIGHLY-COMPENSATED EMPLOYEES. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of restrictions and obligations as a result of our participation in the CPP. As long as the Series A Preferred Shares that we issued to Treasury remain outstanding, we will be permitted to declare and pay dividends on our common shares only if all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on the Series A Preferred Shares are fully paid. Until the third anniversary of the sale of the Series A Preferred Shares, unless such shares have been transferred or redeemed in whole, any increase in dividends on our common shares above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.15 per share) will require prior approval of Treasury. The terms of our agreement with Treasury allow for additional restrictions, including those on dividends, to be imposed by Treasury, including unilateral amendments required to comply with legislative changes. As a recipient of government funding under the CPP, we are also required to comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards established under ARRA and the Interim Final Rule during the period in which any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP remains outstanding, excluding any period during which Treasury holds only warrants to purchase our common shares. For more information regarding these restrictions and our participation in the CPP, see the discussion under the heading “Supervision and Regulation — TARP Capital Purchase Program” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE AND RELATED MARKETS AND THE ECONOMY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States, including Ohio, has been negatively impacted by several economic factors, including increasing rates and payments on adjustable-rate mortgages, decreasing housing values and increased credit standards for borrowers. As a result, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans have increased and may continue to increase. Additionally, the lower housing prices and appraisal values may result in additional delinquencies and loan losses. While the residential real estate loans held in our portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards and do not include sub-prime loans, we do originate and hold fixed- and adjustable-rate loans and residential construction loans. If the residential loan market continues to deteriorate, especially in Ohio and our local markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. THE ENACTMENT OF EESA AND ARRA MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATION, LIQUIDITY OR STOCK PRICE. EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, Treasury established the CPP to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our Common Shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding 21 Table of Contents facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. FEDERAL AND STATE GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT LAWS RESPONSIVE TO THE CURRENT CREDIT CONDITIONS THAT WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COLLECT ON LOANS. Federal or state governments might adopt legislation or regulations reducing the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. Additionally, legislation has been proposed to give judges the ability to adjust the principal and interest payments on mortgages to allow homeowners to avoid foreclosure. Such adjustments could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. FDIC INSURANCE PREMIUMS MAY INCREASE MATERIALLY, NEGATIVELY AFFECTING OUR PROFITABILITY. During 2008 and 2009, there were higher levels of bank failures which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC voted on December 16, 2008 to increase assessment rates of insured depository institutions uniformly by 7 basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits), beginning with the first quarter of 2009. Additional changes, beginning April 1, 2009, were to require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment for the second quarter of 2009 of 5 basis points on each insured depositary institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment for Citizens was $502,000. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments for these periods were collected on December 30, 2009, along with the regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, the prepaid assessment rate was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect for the institution on September 30, 2009, was in effect for the entire third quarter of 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased annual assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. As a result, an institution’s total base assessment rate for purposes of estimating an institution’s assessment for 2011 and 2012 was increased by 3 basis points. Each institution’s prepaid assessment base was calculated using its third quarter 2009 assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated five percent annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Citizens paid $5,168,228 for the three-year prepayment in December 2009, which will be expensed over three years. In January 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rule-making asking for comments on how the FDIC’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment system could be changed to include the risks of certain employee compensation as criteria in the assessment system. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares. 22 Table of Contents CONCERN OF CUSTOMERS OVER DEPOSIT INSURANCE MAY CAUSE A DECREASE IN DEPOSITS AT CITIZENS. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from Citizens in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at Citizens is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. LEGISLATIVE OR REGULATORY CHANGES OR ACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, not to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-Kunder the heading “Supervision and Regulation.” TRADING IN OUR COMMON SHARES IS VERY LIMITED, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TIME AND THE PRICE AT WHICH YOU CAN SELL YOUR COMMON SHARES. Although the common shares of the Corporation are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in the Corporation’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM, AND THE UNEXPECTED LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Our success to date has been strongly influenced by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking in the markets we serve. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. WE NEED TO STAY CURRENT ON TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN ORDER TO COMPETE AND MEET CUSTOMER DEMANDS. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 23 Table of Contents OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR SECURITY BREACH. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. WE MAY ELECT OR BE COMPELLED TO SEEK ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, BUT CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE WHEN IT IS NEEDED We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. I n addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. I n that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Corporation has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2009 fiscal year and that remained unresolved. 