Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the common stock and other securities of the Company involves certain risks. Holders of the Company’s securities and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report, in evaluating an investment in the Company’s securities. If any of the risks and uncertainties discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware, including those relating to the banking and financial services industries in general, or which we do not now believe are material, may cause earnings to be lower, or impair our future financial condition or results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading volume of our stock is low and shareholders may not be able to resell shares at or above the price shareholders paid for them. The trading in our common shares has less liquidity than many other companies quoted on the national securities exchanges or markets. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. We cannot insure volume of trading in our common shares will increase in the future. Furthermore, to the extent shares are concentrated in a relatively small group of holders, a seller could be subject to significant adverse price volatility and price fluctuation. At December 31, 2006, based on filings made by third parties with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we believe that seven holders owned 69.27% of our outstanding common stock. This includes shares held by our Chairman of the Board, Guy A. Gibson who owns 1,297,531 shares, or 17.88%, of our outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional shares may cause dilution. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred stock in connection with future equity offerings, acquisitions of securities or other assets of companies. The Board may also classify or reclassify any unissued preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock could be dilutive to shareholders that do not invest in future offerings. Moreover, to the extent that we issue options, warrants or similar instruments to purchase our common stock in the future and those options, warrants or similar instruments are exercised or we issue restricted stock, shareholders may experience future dilution. 18 Table of Contents If our Board issued additional shares for the purpose of an acquisition of another financial institution depending on the price paid and the price of our common stock, this could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Furthermore, there are significant implementation risks associated with the acquisition and integration of another entity into our Company that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our Board of Directors may authorize the repurchase of common shares that may result in dilution. In 2006 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase by the Company of approximately 378,000 shares of our common stock, of which we have already purchased 300,000 shares for aggregate consideration of $5.85 million or $19.50 per share. The Board of Directors may authorize additional purchases in the future without shareholder approval. If and to the extent that any future purchases are made at prices higher than the net tangible book value per share of the Company, the value of the shares held by the remaining shareholders will be diluted. Control by our executive officers and directors will limit individual ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval and could discourage a potential acquisition by third parties. As of March 9, 2007, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 18.67% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These shareholders, if acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our Board of Directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership, among other factors, could delay or prevent a change in our control of the Company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer, which in turn could prevent our shareholders from realizing an acquisition premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may not have the ability to pay dividends in the future. On February 20, 2007, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.06 per share to record holders of our common stock on March 5, 2007. We had not paid any dividends on our equity before that dividend, which was paid on March 14, 2007. While no specific schedule of future dividends has yet been established, our Board of Directors intends to continue to declare dividends in the future if and to the extent warranted by our financial condition and cash availability. The Board’s determination whether to pay future dividends will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and such other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by various provisions in our debt instruments, the most restrictive of which is a line of credit we have with another financial institution, which provides that the payment of dividends, as defined in such line of credit, is limited to 33% of our net income. Additionally, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the scheduled payments on our junior subordinated debentures and trust preferred securities have not been made. The ability of United Western Bank and other subsidiaries to pay dividends to us may be restricted due to certain regulatory requirements. Risks Related to our Business Strategy We may be unable to fully implement our community banking business strategy. Our executive management team has already begun to implement a traditional, community-focused commercial banking strategy as discussed in Item 1. “Business Strategy” above. In order to complete the execution of this strategy we must, among other things: • attract sufficient commercial business deposits; • attract and maintain business banking relationships with businesses in the Colorado Front Range market; • attract and retain experienced and successful commercial and community bankers; • identify and pursue suitable opportunities for opening new branches in the Colorado Front Range market; • maintain adequate regulatory capital and comply with applicable federal and state regulations; and • originate community bank loans and maintain adequate asset quality. Failure to achieve these strategic goals could adversely affect our ability to fully implement our community banking business strategies as well as our overall financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our proposed growth. Our business strategy contemplates, in part, an increase in our franchise value by expanding into additional communities in the Colorado Front Range through a branch network for United Western Bank. To the extent that we undertake additional branch openings, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations for a period of time. While we are confident in our ability to execute our community banking strategy, it is possible that our expansion could significantly burden our infrastructure or that we will be unable to effectively manage the development of our planned growth. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may adversely affect future growth and earnings. Our ability to successfully execute our business strategy requires us to attract and to retain management experienced in community banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain our executive officers, regional presidents, other management and lending professionals will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. As we grow, it is also important to attract and retain additional qualified lending professionals with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions in the Colorado Front Range market could have a material adverse effect on the implementation and success of our business strategy. The implementation and success of our business strategy depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the Colorado Front Range market. The local economic conditions in our market area will have a significant impact on residential and commercial loans originated, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Moreover, a significant decline in general economic condition caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions in our market area and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our past operating results and financial condition will likely not be representative of our future results and financial condition. Since December of 2005, we have sold our interest in various subsidiaries, established new bank branches, sold and leased back our headquarters building, and discontinued certain operations. In addition, we are continuing to implement our plan to expand the retail operations of United Western Bank, through the opening of new branches and increasing its direct originations of residential and commercial loans. These changes in our operations and new business strategies will make period-to-period comparisons difficult and our past operating results and financial condition will likely not be indicative of our future results and financial condition. We may elect to divest other non-core businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our results. We successfully divested several non-core businesses in 2006. While we currently have no specific intent to do so, management could seek to dispose of other subsidiaries in the future. If we do elect to divest any of our remaining non-core subsidiaries, the effect of such disposition could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business United Western Bank relies on institutional deposits. A significant portion of United Western Bank’s total deposits are funds deposited as a result of unaffiliated institutional relationships maintained by United Western Bank. At December 31, 2006, five unrelated institutional relationships accounted for $573.8 million of our total deposits including custodial escrow deposits. Sterling, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, accounted for $372.7 million of our total deposits. MG Colorado Holdings, Inc., a company in which we own an approximate 7% interest, accounted for $195.2 million of our deposits and Legent Clearing, a company in which our Chairman owns a minority interest, accounted for $118.9 million of our deposits. Institutional depositors generally are more sensitive to interest rate levels due to the amount of money they maintain on deposit than retail consumers who bank at a branch office. United Western Bank’s future success in retaining and attracting institutional depositors depends, in part, on United Western Bank’s ability to offer competitive rates and services. If United Western Bank loses one or more of these institutional relationships, its liquidity, profitability and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. See the additional discussion of deposits in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. United Western Bank relies on wholesale funding sources for secondary and contingent liquidity sources. United Western Bank utilizes borrowings from the FHLBank system, brokered certificates of deposits and repurchase agreements for secondary and contingent sources of liquidity. Also, from time to time, the Bank utilizes these sources to capitalize on market opportunities to fund investment and loan initiatives. If United Western Bank were unable to obtain or maintain our access to funding or if adequate funding is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates, it would have to find alternative sources of liquidity, which, if available, would probably be at a higher cost and on terms that do not match the structure of our liabilities as well as the existing wholesale funding sources. See further discussion of our FHLBank system borrowings at Item 7. “Balance Sheet — Short Term Borrowings” and “Balance Sheet — Liquidity” and in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 20 Table of Contents We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. United Western Bank attempts to minimize its credit risk by undertaking the use of prudent loan application approval procedures, an analysis of the credit risk, the value of the underlying collateral, careful monitoring of the concentration of its loans within specific industries and geographic locations and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by its loan review and audit departments. Nevertheless, we are exposed to risks including possible errors in United Western Bank’s credit analysis, the uncertainty of the borrower’s ability to repay the loans, the uncertainty of future economic conditions and the possibility of loan defaults. See further discussion of the Bank’s nonperforming loans at Item 7. “Balance Sheet — Asset Quality” and “Balance Sheet —Allowance for Credit Losses” in this report. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential, or “spread,” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. In rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline, and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest and principal of their obligations. Changes in interest rates also significantly impact the valuation of our mortgage servicing rights and loans held for sale. Both of these assets are carried at the lower of cost or market. As interest rates decline and mortgage loans prepay faster, mortgage servicing rights decline in value. Changes in mortgage prepayments, interest rates and other factors can cause the value of this asset to decrease rapidly over a short period of time. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and other factors may also cause the value of our loans held for sale to change, possibly resulting in a charge to earnings. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the carrying value of our mortgage servicing rights, our held for sale loan portfolios, our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. See further discussion at Item 7A. “Asset Liability Management” and “Interest Rate Risk” in this report. Although we believe our current level of interest rate risk sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have invested in loan portfolios, pooled securities and mortgage backed obligations, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk. Our asset portfolio contains large portfolios of single-family residential loans acquired through bulk purchases, purchased SBA loans and pools. Our investment portfolio largely consists of mortgage backed securities primarily secured by pools of mortgages on single-family residences. When we acquire such mortgage backed securities and loans, we anticipate that the underlying notes will prepay at a projected rate, thereby generating an expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase as interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Some of our mortgage backed securities, and many of our bulk single-family loan purchases and purchased SBA loans and pools were acquired at a premium purchase price. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, we will write-off such premiums when necessary due to loan prepayments with respect to our held for sale loan portfolio and amortize such premiums over the expected lives of our mortgage backed securities and loans held for investment. If the underlying assets we acquired or that secures our mortgage backed securities prepays more rapidly than anticipated, we would have to write-off or amortize the premium on an accelerated basis, which would adversely affect our profitability. The carrying value of our residential mortgage loan servicing rights and our loan servicing income derived from residential mortgage loan servicing rights may be adversely affected during periods of declining interest rates. Owning residential mortgage loan servicing rights carries interest rate risk because its value and the total amount of servicing fees earned, as well as the amortization of the investment in the servicing rights, fluctuates based on interest rates and loan prepayments (affecting the expected average life of a portfolio of residential mortgage servicing rights). The rate of prepayment of mortgage loans may be influenced by changing national and regional economic trends, such as recessions or depressed real estate markets, as well as the difference between interest rates on existing mortgage loans relative to prevailing mortgage rates. During periods of declining interest rates, many borrowers refinance their mortgage loans. Accordingly, as prepayments of mortgage loans increase, the loan administration fee income related to the residential mortgage loan servicing rights corresponding to a mortgage loan ceases as mortgage loans are prepaid. Consequently, the market value of portfolios of residential mortgage loan servicing rights tends to decrease during periods of declining interest rates, since greater prepayments can be expected, and as a result, the amount of loan administration income received also decreases. See further discussion at Item 7. “Mortgage Servicing Rights”, and at Item 7A. “Interest Rate Risk” in this report. 21 Table of Contents We may have fluctuations in our quarterly results. Our financial results are subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as a result of, among other things, our loan production, opening of new branch locations, development of new products and services, premium amortization caused by prepayments of certain wholesale assets, such as our single-family mortgage loans, guaranteed SBA loans and pooled securities and changes in interest rates. Our operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, economic conditions in the financial industry, the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of operations, the introduction of new services by us or our competitors and the mix of services sold. In response to a changing competitive environment, we may elect from time to time to make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or enter into strategic alliances or make investments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Accordingly, our results of operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any succeeding quarter or for the full fiscal year. Our loan portfolio remains concentrated in real estate loans. Real estate lending (including commercial, construction, land development, and residential) remains a large portion of our loan portfolio. These categories constitute $973 million, or approximately 84% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006. Our business plan calls for continued increases of commercial real estate, residential and commercial construction and land development loans. A downturn in the real estate markets in which United Western Bank originates, purchases and services mortgage and other loans could hurt its business because these loans are secured by real estate. United Western Bank’s real property collateral is currently located throughout the United States although, as a result of our community banking strategy, the amount of such collateral in the Colorado Front Range market is likely to increase. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing the loans could be reduced. United Western Bank’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and United Western Bank would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Any such downturn in the real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could hurt our business. Pursuant to our community banking business strategy, we expect to expand our retail and commercial banking operations in the Colorado Front Range market. Increased competition within this market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the financial and banking services that we offer, or intend to offer, in the Colorado Front Range market. Many of these competitors have larger balance sheets than ours and may be able to compete more effectively than us due to their relative size. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to achieve our anticipated loan and deposit growth and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. See further discussion of competition at Item 1. “Competition” in this report. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and must be managed to provide sufficient reserves to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that the Company has adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s ability to predict, influence or control. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for loan losses reflects the Company’s estimate of the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot assure you that the Company will not increase its allowance for loan losses further or that regulators will not require United Western Bank to increase its allowance. Either of these occurrences could harm our results of operations. See further discussion at Item 7. “Asset Quality” and Allowance for Credit Losses” in this report. 22 Table of Contents The mortgage loans that we hold are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. The residential and commercial mortgage loans held in our loan portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss of principal and interest. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower. In addition, other factors that affect the risk of our mortgage loan portfolio include: • property location and condition; • competition and demand for comparable properties; • changes in zoning laws for the property or its surrounding area; • environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • increases in interest rates and/or real estate tax rates; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation and tax laws; and • other events such as acts of God, natural disasters, war, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held in our mortgage loan portfolio, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral that we can realize upon foreclosure and sale and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan and the cost of foreclosing on the related property. Losses resulting from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures could have a material adverse effect on our income and cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy, as determined by the bankruptcy court. The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we sell mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and the underlying loan defaults, we may be liable to the purchaser for unpaid principal and interest on the loan. In the ordinary course of selling mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and in accordance with industry standards, we make certain representations and warranties to purchasers. If a loan defaults and there has been a breach of representations or warranties and we have no recourse against a third party, we may become liable for the unpaid principal and interest on the defaulted loan. In such a case, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the loan. When we purchase mortgage servicing rights or mortgage loans, we also are exposed to liability to the extent that an originator or other seller of the servicing rights is unable to honor its representations and warranties to us. The Company has established a reserve for repurchases that may be required in connection with loans we originated and sold in connection with the sale of our wholesale production platform in 2003. 23 Table of Contents If a loan originator or seller of mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights breaches its representations and warranties to us, we may be at risk if such seller does not have the financial capacity to pay for damages we incur as a result of such breach or to repurchase any such loan. We generally receive representations and warranties from the originators and sellers from whom we purchase mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights, as well as in certain situations, contractually providing for recourse relating to performance of the loans we purchase. However, in the event of an originator’s and/or seller’s breach of such representations and warranties, we may be subject to the risk of loss that may result from such a breach if the seller and/or originator does not have the financial capacity to pay for any damages we incur or to repurchase loans when called upon by us to do so. Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect our SBA business. Our SBA business relies on originating, purchasing, pooling and selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the SBA. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans for a period of time. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or the U.S. Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the programs. If changes occur, the volumes of loans that qualify for government guarantees could decline. Lower volumes of origination of government guaranteed loans may reduce the profitability of our SBA business. Failure in our automated systems and controls could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. We depend heavily upon our automated systems and controls for our business and operations. These systems and controls support the evaluation, acquisition, monitoring, collection and administration of our loan and servicing portfolios, depository, general accounting and other management functions, as well as the brokerage functions we perform. The failure of the automated systems, including a failure of data integrity or accuracy, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and deter potential customers. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. A failure of such security measures could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to prevent breaches of our computer and network security systems may result in customer information being compromised and/or identity theft, which would have a material adverse effect upon our business. We maintain personal and financial information about our current, past and potential customers on our computer systems and network infrastructure, such as customer names, addresses, social security numbers, tax identification numbers, bank account numbers, information on loan applications and other sensitive personal and financial information about our customers. In addition, our customers may use the Internet to connect to United Western Bank’s website to retrieve information about their accounts and to conduct online transactions, such as online bill payments. If the security of our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure responsible for storing our customers’ personal and financial data and information or the security of our online banking Internet services is breached, then customer information could be stolen and misused. Such misuse could include the loss of privacy resulting from the sale or disclosure of the information to third parties, credit fraud or other consequences of identity theft to the customer. While we believe that our current encrypted systems meet or exceed all commercial standards for network security, new criminal schemes or capabilities could compromise or breach our systems and network infrastructure. If our security measures fail to protect our customer’s information, our existing and future customer base may be adversely affected, we may become subject to customer lawsuits, the public perception of us may be diminished, and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. United Western Bank is regulated by the OTS and the FDIC and we are also regulated by the OTS. United Western Bank also belongs to the FHLBank System and, as a member of such system, is subject to certain regulations promulgated by the FHLBank of Topeka and FHLBank of Dallas. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, the FHLBank System, the United States Congress or other federal or state regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect the FDIC’s insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers, rather than our shareholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Truth-in-Saving Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and Colorado’s deceptive practices acts. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. See further discussion at Item 1. “Regulation and Supervision” in this report. Sterling Trust is subject to regulation as a trust company and could be the subject of third party actions as a result of the trust services it provides. As a Texas-chartered trust company, Sterling is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Texas Department of Banking. Pursuant to applicable law, a Texas trust company, such as Sterling, is subject to virtually all provisions of the Texas Banking Act as if the trust company were a state-chartered bank. The activities of a Texas trust company are limited by applicable law generally to acting as a trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or agent for the performance of any lawful act, and to lend and accumulate money when authorized under applicable law. Sterling is also subject to Internal Revenue Service and Department of Labor regulations. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which Sterling may engage and the Texas Department of Banking has supervisory and enforcement power with respect to Sterling’s operations. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect Sterling or us adversely. See further discussion at Item 1. “Regulation and Supervision.” As a custodian of self-directed individual retirement accounts and other retirement accounts, Sterling does not provide investment advice, nor does it maintain discretion, with regard to the investment choices made by its customers and their representatives. Nevertheless, Sterling has been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to claims by third parties regarding breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, or similar claims alleging violation of duty or law. While we believe federal law and the laws of the various states in which we operate support our view of Sterling’s duties, or lack thereof, in that regard, there can be no assurances that any third party that takes a contrary position will not prevail in any litigation or other proceeding challenging the matter. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is subject to our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries. We are a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We currently depend on our cash and liquidity as well as dividends from our subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will continue to have the capacity to pay us the necessary dividends to satisfy our obligations. The availability of dividends from United Western Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Depending upon the financial condition of United Western Bank and other factors, it is possible that the OTS could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by United Western Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due or pay dividends on our common stock. In such an event, an inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Significant legal actions could subject the Company to substantial liabilities. The Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including potential supervisory actions by the Company’s regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, the Company may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions General economic conditions, whether regional or industry-related or due to a recession throughout the United States, affect consumers’ decisions to buy or sell residences as well as the number of residential mortgage loan delinquencies and foreclosures, the value of collateral supporting loan portfolios, administrative costs in evaluating and processing loan applications and the costs and availability of funds that companies rely upon in order to make or purchase loans. Changes in the level of consumer confidence, real estate values, prevailing interest rates and investment returns expected by the financial community could make loans of the types originated, purchased, serviced and sold by the Company less attractive to borrowers or investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 