Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operating results included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements. Our business could be harmed by adverse general economic and market conditions which could lead to reduced spending on information technology products. We have seen our markets become increasingly affected by the continuing global macroeconomic downturn. The downturn, which first started in the U.S., has also impacted our customers in other parts of the world. We believe that it is likely that this economic downturn will continue to persist; however, we cannot predict its severity, duration or impact on our future operating results. As our business expands globally, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Economic growth in the U.S. and other countries has slowed since the second half of 2008, which caused our customers to delay or reduce information technology purchases. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market cr isis, declining consumer and business confidence, shifts in consumer spending patterns, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our clients might experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages and difficulty obtaining financing. If economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries continue to deteriorate, customers may continue to delay or further reduce purchases. This could result in additional reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our OEM and VAR customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations, which would increase our credit risk exposure and cause a decrease in operating cash flows. Also, if OEM and VAR customers experience exces sive financial difficulties and/or insolvency, and we are unable to successfully transition end-users to purchase products from other vendors or directly from us, sales could decline significantly. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued disruption in credit markets and world-wide economic changes may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Continued disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business and financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services. It may also result in customers extending the length of time in which they pay and in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases, even if they have cash or if credit is available to them. We may not successfully complete our acquisition of AMICAS. Our acquisition of AMICAS is subject to a number of conditions including, without limitation, a successful tender of more than 54% of the outstanding shares of common stock of AMICAS, antitrust clearance and other regulatory approvals. There is no guarantee that these conditions will be satisfied and that we will complete the Acquisition. In connection with the Acquisition, we have already incurred and anticipate incurring significant indebtedness, issuing substantial amounts of new equity securities and incurring significant costs related to the acquisition, debt offering and stock issuances. We anticipate total costs of these transactions to be incurred by both parties, including the break-up fee already paid to a former potential acquir or of AMICAS, will approximate $32 million. In addition, we would become liable to AMICAS for significant termination fees if we fail to obtain the necessary financing or otherwise breach our obligations under our AMICAS acquisition agreement. As a result, if we fail to complete the Acquisition after incurring these costs, our business will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our acquisition of AMICAS is not subject to a financing condition. 9 Index We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from the AMICAS Acquisition. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from the AMICAS Acquisition. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating AMICAS’ diversified businesses into our company. Factors that could affect our ability to achieve these benefits include: · The failure of AMICAS’ businesses to perform in accordance with our expectations; · Difficulties in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by AMICAS’ businesses into our company; · Any future goodwill impairment charges that we may incur with respect to the assets of AMICAS; · Failure to achieve anticipated synergies between our business units and the business units of AMICAS; · The loss of AMICAS’ customers or our customers; and · The loss of any of the key employees of AMICAS or our company. If AMICAS’ businesses do not operate as we anticipate, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the AMICAS Acquisition, we will assume all of AMICAS’ liabilities. We may learn additional information about AMICAS’ business that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities, issues relating to internal controls over financial reporting and issues relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or other applicable laws. As a result, there can be no assurance that the AMICAS Acquisition will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if AMICAS’ liabilities are greater than projected, or if there are obligations of AMICAS of which we are not aware at t he time of completion of the acquisition, our business could be materially adversely affected. The successful integration of AMICAS’ businesses into our company following the AMICAS Acquisition will present significant challenges. We anticipate that the AMICAS Acquisition will place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate AMICAS’ businesses into our company. Our failure to successfully integrate AMICAS with our company, and to manage the challenges presented by the integration process successfully, may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will incur significant indebtedness in connection with our proposed acquisition of AMICAS, which could harm our operating flexibility and competitive position. We will incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance the AMICAS Acquisition. We anticipate financing the acquisition through the sale of high yield notes or a bridge financing. The terms of this indebtedness will contain limitations on the amount of additional indebtedness that we and our subsidiaries may incur and place other restrictions on the operation of our business. The indebtedness will require significant interest and principal payments. Our level of debt as a result of the AMICAS Acquisition and the limitations imposed on us by the debt agreements related to such indebtedness could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our substantial debt level may adversely affect our future performance, because, among other things: < /font> · We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; · Our ability to complete future acquisitions may be limited; · We will have to use a portion of our cash flow for debt service rather than for operations; 10 Index · We may not be able to obtain further debt financing and may have to pay more for financing; · We may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities; · The indebtedness may bear interest at variable interest rates, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; and · We will be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our future capital needs are uncertain and our ability to access additional financing may be negatively impacted by the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy. Our capital requirements in the future will depend on many factors, including: · Acceptance of and demand for our products; · The extent to which we invest in new technology and product development; · The costs of developing new products, services or technologies; · Our interest and principal payment obligations under the indebtedness that we will incur in connection with our acquisition of AMICAS; · The number and method of financing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; and · The costs associated with the growth of our business, if any. If adverse global economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience a decrease in cash flows from operations and may need additional financing to fund operations. Due to the existing uncertainty in the capital markets (including debt, private equity, venture capital and traditional bank lending), access to additional debt or equity may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of the indebtedness that we incur in connection with our acquisition of AMICAS may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms when necessary, we may not be able to develop or enhance products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer require ments. We may incur additional debt in the future. We must continue to enhance and expand our product and service offerings in order to maintain our competitive position, satisfy our working capital obligations and to increase our market share. As a result, the continuing operations of our business may require substantial capital infusions. For example, in June 2008, we borrowed $20.0 million from Merrick RIS, LLC, an affiliate of Merrick Ventures, LLC, in exchange for a $15.0 million senior secured term note (which was repaid in full on November 18, 2009) and 21,085,715 shares of our common stock. Our ability to obtain additional debt in the future may be difficult or on disadvantageous terms. We currently do not have a credit facility and such a facility may be difficult to obtain in the future given the amount of indebtedness that we will in cur in connection with our acquisition of AMICAS and future market conditions. Unless we can achieve cash flow levels sufficient to support our operations, we may require additional borrowings or the sale of debt or equity securities, sale of non-strategic assets, or some combination thereof, to provide funding for our operations. Our ability to borrow in the future is dependent upon our ability to manage business operations and generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient working capital or obtain alternative financing, we may not be able to borrow or otherwise obtain additional funds to finance our operations when needed, our financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. 11 Index Healthcare industry consolidation could impose pressure on our software prices, reduce our potential client base and reduce demand for our software. Many hospitals and imaging centers have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our potential customer base and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our software. In addition, when hospitals and imaging centers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure, and consolidation of our customers could erode our revenue base. We may experience significant fluctuations in revenue growth rates and operating results. We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates and review all estimates on a quarterly basis. Many of our expenses and investments are fixed and we may not be able to adjust spending quickly enough if sales are lower than expected. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable and our percentage growth rates may decrease or fluctuate significantly. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for our products and services offered through us or our OEM and VAR customers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: · Demand for our software solutions and services; · Our sales cycle; · Economic cycles; · The level of reimbursements to our end-user customers from government sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid); · Accounting policy changes mandated by regulating entities; · Delays due to customers’ internal budgets and procedures for approving capital expenditures, by competing needs for other capital expenditures and the deployment of new technologies and personnel resources; · Our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ demands; · Our ability to fulfill orders; · The introduction of competitive products and services; · Price decreases; · Changes in the usage of the Internet and eCommerce, including in non-U.S. markets; · Changes to regulatory approval processes and/or requirements; · Timing, effectiveness and costs of expansion and changes in our systems and infrastructure; · The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims involving us; and · Variations in the mix of products and services offered by us. Delays in the expected sales or installation of our software may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and, consequently, our earnings since a significant percentage of expenses are relatively fixed. Additionally, we sometimes depend, in part, upon large contracts with a small number of OEM customers to meet sales goals in any particular quarter. Delays in the expected sales or installation of solutions under these large contracts may have a significant impact on our quarterly net sales and consequently our earnings, particularly because a significant percentage of expenses are fixed. 12 Index The length of our sales and implementation cycles may adversely affect our operating results. We have experienced long sales and implementation cycles. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially modify medical imaging management software, or to modify or add business processes, are major decisions for our end-user target market. The sales cycle for our software ranges from six to 18 months or more from initial contact to contract execution. Our end-user implementation cycle has generally ranged from three to nine months from contract execution to completion of implementation. During the sales and implementation cycles, we will expend substantial time, effort and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software, and may not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures. Additionally, any decision by our custome rs to delay or cancel purchases or the implementation of our software may adversely affect net sales. We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. Some of our competitors are focused on sub-markets within targeted industries, while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources with recognized brands, technological expertise and market experience. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us, but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments that would adversely affect margins. If we are unable or unwilling to do so, we may lose market share in target markets and our financial results may be adversely affected. We face aggressive competition in many areas, and our business will be harmed if we fail to compete effectively. The markets for medical imaging solutions are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We may be unable to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources, and we may not be able to compete effectively with them. In addition, new competitors may emerge and our system and software solution offerings may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of our solutions. We often compete with our OEM customers’ own internal software engineering groups. The size and competency of these groups may create additional competition. In the area of RIS and PACS workflow applications, many competitors offer portions of an integrated radiology solution through their RIS and PACS. Additionally, certain competitors are integrating RIS and PACS technologies through development, partnership and acquisition activities. The development and acquisition of additional products, services and technologies, and the improvement of our existing products and services, require significant investments in research and development. For example, our current product candidates are in various stages of development and may require significant further research, development, pre-clinical or clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization. If we fail to successfully sell new products and update existing products, our operating results may decline as existing products reach the end of their commercial life cycles. If we are unable to successfully identify or effectively integrate acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected. We have in the past and may in the future acquire and make investments in companies, products or technologies that we believe complement or expand our existing business and assist in quickly bringing new products to market. In 2009, we completed 2 significant acquisitions, etrials on July 20, 2009 and Confirma on September 1, 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at anticipated levels. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities, or disrupt operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations. In addition, we may use our capital stock to acquire acquisition targets, which could be dilutive to the existing stockholders and cause a decline in the price of our Common Stock. 13 Index In making or attempting to make acquisitions or investments, we face a number of risks, including risks related to: · Identifying suitable candidates, performing appropriate due diligence, identifying potential liabilities and negotiating acceptable terms; · Reducing our working capital and hindering our ability to expand or maintain our business, if acquisitions are made using cash; · The potential distraction of our management, diversion of our resources and disruption to our business; · Retaining and motivating key employees of the acquired companies; · Managing operations that are distant from our current headquarters and operational locations; · Entering into industries or geographic markets in which we have little or no prior experience; · Competing for acquisition opportunities with competitors that are larger or have greater financial and other resources than us; · Accurately forecasting the financial impact of a transaction; · Assuming liabilities of acquired companies, including existing or potential litigation related to the operation of the business prior to the acquisition; · Maintaining good relations with the customers and suppliers of the acquired company; and · Effectively integrating acquired companies and achieving expected synergies. In addition, any acquired business, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue and net income to offset the associated costs of such acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in other adverse effects. Moreover, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies but be unable or unwilling to consummate the acquisitions under consideration. This can be expensive and could cause significant diversion of managerial attention and resources. Our acquisitions could trigger certain provisions contained in agreements between third parties and acquired companies that could permit such parties to terminate that agreement. The companies we acquire may be a party to agreements that permit a counter-party to terminate an agreement or receive payments because the acquisition would cause a default or violate an anti-assignment, change of control or similar clause in such agreements. If this happens, we may have to seek to replace that agreement with a new agreement or make additional payments under such agreements. However, we may be unable to replace a terminated agreement on comparable terms or at all. Depending on the importance of such agreement to the acquired business, the failure to replace a terminated agreement on similar terms or at all, and requirements to pay additional amounts, may increase our costs of operating the acquired business or prevent us from operating the acquired business. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs associated with acquisition activities. In the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $1.2 million of acquisition related costs. All such direct acquisition costs have been expensed as incurred by us. In addition, we believe we may incur charges to operations, in the quarters following an acquisition, to reflect costs associated with integrating acquired companies. We may incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters associated with acquisitions. We anticipate that our acquisition activities will require significant cash outflows directly related to completing acquisitions as well as costs related to integration efforts. If the benefits of an acquisition do not exceed the costs of integrating the businesses, our financial results may be adversely affected. 14 Index A portion of our business relies upon a network of independent contractors and distributors whose actions could have an adverse effect on our business. We obtain some critical information from independent contractors. In addition, we rely on a network of VAR’s and distributors to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales team. These independent contractors and distributors are not our employees. As a result, we have limited ability to monitor and direct their activities. The loss of a significant number of these independent contractors or dealers could disrupt our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Furthermore, if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or otherwise are deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions or reputation damage, any of which could adversely affect our b usiness and require us to terminate relationships with them. Our investments in technology may not be sufficient and may not result in an increase in our revenues or decrease in our operating costs. As the technological landscape continues to evolve, it may become increasingly difficult for us to make timely, cost-effective changes to our offerings in a manner that adequately differentiates them from those of our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that our investments have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies and products by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our performance and future success depends on our ability to attract, integrate and retain qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel. We are dependent, in part, upon the services of our senior executives and other key business and technical personnel. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on our senior executives. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success will depend upon, among other things, the successful recruiting and retention of highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel with experience in similar business activities. Competition for the type of highly skilled individuals that we seek is intense. We may not be able to retain existing key employees or be able to find, attract and retain skilled personnel on acceptable terms. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with employees, customers and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate intellectual property rights in all countries where we do business. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of these rights. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the payment of damages. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed on their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on favorable terms, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing services under commercial agreements. These risks ha ve been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. We also rely on proprietary know how and confidential information and employ various methods, such as entering into confidentiality and non-compete agreements with our current employees and with certain third parties to whom we have divulged proprietary information to protect the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our solutions. Such methods may not afford sufficient protection, and we may not be able to protect trade secrets adequately or ensure that other companies would not acquire information that we consider proprietary. We have foreign exchange rate risk. Our international operating results are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. While the functional currency of most of our international operations is the U.S. Dollar, certain account balances are maintained in the local currency. Upon remeasurement of such accounts or through normal operations, results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of such balances. As we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. 15 Index We may not be successful in our efforts to expand into international markets. Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In 2009, our international revenues were $15.5 million, or about 23% of total revenues. We also plan to expand the international revenues of AMICAS after the Acquisition. We have relatively little experience operating in these or future markets and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · Local economic and political conditions; · Foreign government regulation of healthcare and government reimbursement of health services; · Local restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products and services; · Local import, export or other business licensing requirements; · Local limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; · Shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; · Local laws and regulations regarding data protection, privacy, network security and restrictions on pricing; · Difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; · Different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; · Laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans and taxes; and · Geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. Litigation or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial condition. From April 2006 to November 2009, we were subject to a formal SEC investigation related to our announcement, on March 17, 2006, that we would investigate allegations of improprieties related to financial reporting and revise our results of operations for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2005, and September 30, 2005. On November 4, 2009, the SEC filed a Complaint in federal court charging Merge with record-keeping violations but did not charge Merge with fraud nor assess any civil penalty against Merge. The Complaint enjoined Merge from making any future violations of the reporting, record-keeping and internal controls provisions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, two of Merge’s former executives were charged with accounting fraud in the Complaint. On June 1, 2009, we were served with a Summons and Complaint in the Milwaukee County Circuit Court, State of Wisconsin, captioned William C. Mortimore and David M. Nosay v. Merge Technologies Inc. n/k/a Merge Healthcare Inc. [sic], Case Number 09CV008356, Case Code 30301. The Complaint includes a demand for a jury trial and alleges that Merge unreasonably refused Mortimore and Noshay’s request for indemnification; requests the court order that they are entitled to indemnification under Wisconsin Statute Section 180.0851(2); alleges breaches of certain employment agreements; and a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Monetary damages are unspecified. We intend to vigorously defend this action. However, any adverse outcome could negatively impact our business and operating resul ts. As a result of lawsuits and regulatory matters, including the matter discussed above, we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial expenses. In addition to the matter discussed above, we are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims incident to our business activities. Such matters may include, among other things, assertions of contract breach or intellectual property infringement, claims for indemnity arising in the course of our business and claims by persons whose employment has been terminated. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 16 Index We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property is harmed by the products and services that we sell. Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or environmental or property damage and may require product recalls or other actions. Certain third parties, primarily our customers, also sell products or services using our products. This may increase our exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available on economically reasonable terms or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We provide customers with certain warranties that could result in higher costs than anticipated. Software products such as ours that are used in a wide range of clinical and health information systems settings may contain a number of errors or “bugs,” especially early in their product life cycle. Our products include clinical information systems used in patient care settings where a low tolerance for errors or bugs exists. Testing of products is difficult due to the wide range of environments in which systems are installed. The discovery of defects or errors in our software products or in our implementation of integrated solutions may cause delays in product delivery, poor client references, payment disputes, contract cancellations or additional expenses and payments to rectify problems. Any of those factors may result in delayed acceptance of, or the return of, our software pr oducts. We depend on licenses from third parties for rights to some technology we use, and if we are unable to continue these relationships and maintain our rights to this technology, our business could suffer. Some of the technology used in our software depends upon licenses from third party vendors. These licenses typically expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. We may not be able to continue using the technology made available to us under these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce software shipments until we obtain equivalent technology, which could hurt our business. Most of our third party licenses are nonexclusive. Our competitors may obtain the same right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. I n addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, particularly with regard to the Microsoft Windows/Intel platform on which most of our products operate, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own software. We are subject to government regulation, changes to which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), including periodic FDA inspections, in Canada under Health Canada’s Medical Devices Regulations, and in other countries by corresponding regulatory authorities. We may be required to undertake additional actions in the U.S. to comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the Act), regulations promulgated under the Act, and any other applicable regulatory requirements. For example, the FDA has increased its focus on regulating computer software intended for the use in a healthcare setting. If our software solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to more extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities. Complying with these regul ations could be time consuming and expensive, and may include: · Requiring us to receive FDA clearance of a pre-market notification submission demonstrating substantial equivalence to a device already legally marketed, or to obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application establishing the safety and effectiveness of the software; · Requiring us to comply with rigorous regulations governing the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and 17 Index · Requiring us to comply with the Act regarding general controls, including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices, reporting of specified malfunctions and adverse device events. Similar obligations may exist in other countries in which we do business, including Canada. Any failure by us to comply with other applicable regulatory requirements, both domestic and foreign, could subject us to a number of enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, product seizures, recalls, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, operating restrictions or limitations on marketing, refusal of the government to grant new clearances or approvals, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Changes in federal and state regulations relating to patient data could depress the demand for our software and impose significant software redesign costs. Federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA compliant and non-compliant formats and health plans. Collectively, these groups are known as covered entities. The HIPAA regulations prescribe transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions, protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information and require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. 160;Although we are not a covered entity, most of our customers are, and they require that our software and services adhere to HIPAA regulations. Any failure or perceived failure of our software or services to meet HIPAA regulations could adversely affect demand for our software and services and potentially require us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our software or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients. States and foreign jurisdictions have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA privacy regulations. This may lead to different restrictions for handling individually identifiable health information. As a result, our customers may demand IT solutions and services that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements, which could increase our development costs. In the future, federal, state or foreign governmental authorities may impose new data security regulations or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. We cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business; however, the demand for our software and services may decrease if we are not able to develop and offer software and services that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing our clients. Proposed federal U.S. government reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates for radiology procedures could negatively affect revenues of our hospital and imaging clinic customers, which could reduce our customers’ ability to purchase our software and services. A significant portion of our net sales are derived directly or indirectly from sales to end-users in the U.S., including hospitals, diagnostic imaging centers and specialty clinics, many of which generate some or all of their revenues from government sponsored healthcare programs, principally, Medicare and Medicaid. We believe that the implementation of the reimbursement reductions contained in the Deficit Reduction Act has adversely impacted our end-user customers’ revenues per examination, which has caused some of them to respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our software solutions and services, including maintenance. A JACR study in September 2009 of the effects of the DRA indicated that MR volumes for radiology dropped 2% in 2007 from an 8.4% ann ual growth rate in 2002-2006, and MR payments to radiologists dropped 30% from an 11% annual growth. This indicates the dramatic impact of legislation on our industry. The risk of more Medicare imaging reimbursement cuts remains Cuts proposed for 2010 include overall physician fee schedule reductions, general modality reimbursement cuts, the utilization change noted above and specific code level reimbursement decreases. These cuts compound reimbursement losses. For example, a radiologist completing a myocardial perfusion study would see a 50% drop in reimbursement based on these changes. We believe the medical community will continue to contest these reductions. For example, the American College of Cardiology has filed a lawsuit against the Department of Health and Human Services regarding one of the proposed physician fee changes. It is unclear if any of these proposed changes will remain intact for 2010, will be superseded by bro ader healthcare legislation or will be reversed with future CMS changes or legislation. As such, our direct customers are faced with an inability to accurately forecast their revenue streams. In turn, this creates risk for us in their ability to pay for ongoing maintenance and upgrades and/or expand their solutions. 18 Index There are a limited number of stockholders who have significant control over our common stock, allowing them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which may conflict with our interests and the interests of other stockholders. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders (stockholders owning 10% or more of our common stock) beneficially owned approximately 30.5 million, or 39.5 %, of the outstanding shares of common stock and stock options that could have been converted to common stock at December 31, 2009, and such stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and other corporate actions. Also, on November 18, 2009, we repaid in full our $15.0 million senior secured term note from Merrick RIS, LLC (Merrick), an affiliate of Merrick Ventures, LLC, including a prepayment penalty of $2,700 and accrued interest of $395. As of December 31, 2009, Merrick and its affiliates owned approximately 37.4% of our Common Stock. 0;The influence of our large stockholders could impact our business strategy and also have the effect of discouraging others from attempting us to take over, thereby increasing the likelihood that the market price of the common stock will not reflect a premium for control. In addition, we engage from time to time in transactions with certain of our significant stockholders. In June 2008, in exchange for $20 million, we issued (i) a $15 million senior secured note payable to Merrick RIS, LLC, an affiliate of Merrick Ventures, and (ii) 21,085,715 shares of our common stock at a price per share of $0.35 to Merrick. In November 2009, we completed a stock offering and used a portion of the proceeds to prepay in full our senior secured note due June 2010 held by Merrick RIS, LLC, which included all amounts owed under the Note of $15.0 million and an additional amount $3.1 million payable as a result of the prepayment of the note. Merrick RIS, LLC beneficially owns, as of December 31, 2009, 37.4% of our outstanding common stock. Michael W. Ferro, Jr., our Chairman of th e Board, and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Ferro’s family members beneficially own a majority of the equity interest in Merrick RIS, LLC. Mr. Ferro also serves as the chairman and chief executive officer of Merrick RIS, LLC. In addition, Justin C. Dearborn, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, served as Managing Director and General Counsel of Merrick Ventures, LLC, an affiliate of Merrick RIS, LLC. Our large stockholders may have interests that differ from other shareholders. Merrick RIS, LLC beneficially owns, as of December 31, 2009, 37.4% of our outstanding common stock. Michael W. Ferro, Jr., our Chairman of the Board, and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Ferro’s family members beneficially own a majority of the equity interest in Merrick RIS, LLC. Mr. Ferro also serves as the chairman and chief executive officer of Merrick RIS, LLC. Accordingly, Mr. Ferro indirectly owned or controlled the senior secured note payable and all of the shares of common stock owned by Merrick RIS, LLC. In addition, prior to joining the Company, Justin C. Dearborn, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, served as Managing Director and General Counsel of Merrick Ventures, LLC, an affiliate of Merrick RIS, LLC. Due to its stock ownership, Merrick RIS, LLC has s ignificant influence over our business, including the election of our directors. In June 2008, in exchange for $20 million, we issued (i) a $15 million senior secured note payable to Merrick RIS, LLC, an affiliate of Merrick Ventures, and (ii) 21,085,715 shares of our Common Stock at a price per share of $0.35 to Merrick. In November 2009, we completed a stock offering and used a portion of the proceeds to prepay in full our senior secured note due June 2010 held by Merrick RIS, LLC, which included all amounts owed under the note of $15.0 million and an additional amount of $3.1 million payable as a result of the prepayment of the note. Effective as of January 1, 2009, we entered into a consulting agreement with Merrick RIS, LLC. Services provide by Merrick Ventures, LLC under the consulting agreement include investor relations, financial analysis and strategic planning. The cost of this consulting agreement in 2009 was $460,000. Effective Jan uary 1, 2010, we entered into an amendment to extend the term of the consulting agreement through December 31, 2011, and modified the payment terms from a flat fee arrangement per quarter to a per transaction or success based arrangement. On March 31, 2009, we entered into a value added reseller agreement with Merrick Healthcare Solutions, LLC (Merrick Healthcare). Under terms of the agreement, Merrick Healthcare purchased software licenses from us for $400,000. Payment of the entire balance was made on the date of the agreement. We recognized $400,000 in revenue in the first quarter of 2009 related to this transaction. In addition, in February 2010, we entered into a VAR agreement with Merrick Healthcare under which we may market, resell, or supply certain of their products and services. Under terms of the agreement, products and services will be purchased on a per unit basis from Merrick Healthcare. 19 Index As a result of these relationships, the interests of Merrick RIS, LLC and its affiliates may differ from those of our other stockholders. Merrick Ventures, LLC and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and maximizing the return on those investments. They currently have, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain aspects of our business or our suppliers’ or customers’ businesses. Merrick’s significant ownership of our voting stock will enable it to influence or effectively control us. The market price of our Common Stock may decline as a result of acquisitions. The market price of our Common Stock may decline after acquisitions, including AMICAS, are completed. Some of the issues that we could face are: · The integration of an acquired business is unsuccessful or takes longer or is more disruptive than anticipated; · We do not achieve the expected synergies or other benefits of the acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated, if at all; · The effect of the acquisition on our financial results does not meet the expectations of Merge, financial analysts or investors; or · After the acquisition, the business does not perform as anticipated. In connection with the acquisitions of etrials and Confirma in the third quarter of 2009, we issued 9.4 million additional shares of our Common Stock. The increase in the number of outstanding shares of our Common Stock may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We will not be using our Common Stock as consideration for the AMICAS Acquisition, but we anticipate issuing additional Common Stock to the purchasers of our new class of Preferred Stock that will fund a portion of the purchase price for the AMICAS Acquisition. Shares of our common stock eligible for public sale may have a negative impact on the market price of our commons stock, and dilute our stockholders’ percentage ownership and voting power. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital, should we wish to do so, through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had 74,791,753 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding options to purchase 5,021,995 shares of our common stock, of which 2,076,212 options were then exercisable, and 426,664 shares granted under restricted stock awards. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing holders of our common stock or by holders of outstanding options, upon the exercise thereof, could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of common stock become available for sale in the public market, due to the exercise of options or the issuance of shares as a result of acquisitions, the market supply of shares of common stock will increase, which could also decrease the market price. We are unable to estimate the number of shares that may be sold because this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the personal circumstances of the sellers and other factors. Any sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other securities in the open market may adversely affect the market price of such securities and may adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing in the capital markets as well as create a potential market overhang. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our stock only if it appreciates in value. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at stockholders have purchased and will purchase shares. 20 Index The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may fluctuate substantially in the future. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: · Our ability to meet or exceed the expectations of analysts or investors; · Changes in our forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; · Quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · Announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by us or our competitors; · General conditions in the healthcare IT industry; · Governmental regulatory action and healthcare reform measures, including changes in reimbursement rates for imaging procedures; · Rumors about our performance or software solutions; · Announcements regarding acquisitions, including our AMICAS Acquisition; · Uncertainty regarding our ability to service existing debt; · Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many software, healthcare and technology companies; and · General economic conditions. In addition, the market for our common stock may experience price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These fluctuations could have a significant impact on our business due to diminished incentives for management and diminished currency for acquisitions. Certain provisions of our charter and Delaware law could make a takeover difficult and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management team. We have an authorized class of 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and one authorized share of Series 3 Special Voting Stock preferred stock. These shares may be issued by our board of directors, on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designation as the board of directors may determine, and a new class of preferred stock will be issued to fund, in part, the AMICAS Acquisition. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us. In addition, we are subject to provisions of Delaware corporate law which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any “business combination” with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years following the date that the person came to own 15% or more of our common stock, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, and of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price, and the voting and other rights of the holders, of our common stock. In addition, these provisions make it more difficult to replace or remove our current management team in the event our stockholders believe this would be in our best interest and the best interests our stockholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Index 